size of the suffix array is 221366
sorting starts
 Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and gives him the preference over all other mythologists.  His 'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongest admonition against the power of flattery.  There is no need of a separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing it deeper, by that load we too often see of accumulated reflections."  3 An equal amount of praise is due for the consistency with which the characters of the animals, fictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an eminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel, of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack that unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals, which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable. This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Aesop for the immediate purpose of reconciling the inhabitants of Samos and Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and Pisistratus; while the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed to caution the inhabitants of Himera against granting a bodyguard to Phalaris.  In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the "Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the contemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus the favourite, and minister of Trajan.  These fables, however, though thus originating in special events, and designed at first to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as to be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal application. 4 Hesiod.  Opera et Dies, verse 202. 5 Aeschylus.  Fragment of the Myrmidons.  Aeschylus speaks of this fable as existing before his day.  See Scholiast on the Aves of Aristophanes, line 808. 6 Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193. 7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop is involved, like that of Homer, the most famous of Greek poets, in much obscurity.  Sardis, the capital of Lydia; Samos, a Greek island; Mesembria, an ancient colony in Thrace; and Cotiaeum, the chief city of a province of Phrygia, contend for the distinction of being the birthplace of Aesop.  Although the honor thus claimed cannot be definitely assigned to any one of these places, yet there are a few incidents now generally accepted by scholars as established facts, relating to the birth, life, and death of Aesop.  He is, by an almost universal consent, allowed to have been born about the year 620 B.C., and to have been by birth a slave.  He was owned by two masters in succession, both inhabitants of Samos, Xanthus and Jadmon, the latter of whom gave him his liberty as a reward for his learning and wit.  One of the privileges of a freedman in the ancient republics of Greece, was the permission to take an active interest in public affairs; and Aesop, like the philosophers Phaedo, Menippus, and Epictetus, in later times, raised himself from the indignity of a servile condition to a position of high renown.  In his desire alike to instruct and to be instructed, he travelled through many countries, and among others came to Sardis, the capital of the famous king of Lydia, the great patron, in that day, of learning and of learned men. He met at the court of Croesus with Solon, Thales, and other sages, and is related so to have pleased his royal master, by the part he took in the conversations held with these philosophers, that he applied to him an expression which has since passed into a proverb, "The Phrygian has spoken better than all."On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis, and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and delicate affairs of State.  In his discharge of these commissions he visited the different petty republics of Greece.  At one time he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring, by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities, until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The blood of Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop was not unavenged.  The citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities, until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The blood of Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Aesop, and other Fabulists.  In three books, translated by Robert Dodsley, accompanied with a selection of notes, and an Essay on Fable. Birmingham, 1864.  P.  60. 3 Some of these fables had, no doubt, in the first instance, a primary and private interpretation.  On the first occasion of their being composed they were intended to refer to some passing event, or to some individual acts of wrong-doing.  Thus, the fables of the "Eagle and the Fox" and of the "Fox and Monkey' are supposed to have been written by Archilochus, to avenge the injuries done him by Lycambes.  So also the fables of the "Swollen Fox" and of the "Frogs asking a King" were spoken by Aesop for the immediate purpose of reconciling the inhabitants of Samos and Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and Pisistratus; while the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed to caution the inhabitants of Himera against granting a bodyguard to Phalaris.  In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the "Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the contemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus the favourite, and minister of Trajan.  These fables, however, though thus originating in special events, and designed at first to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as to be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal application. 4 Hesiod.  Opera et Dies, verse 202. 5 Aeschylus.  Fragment of the Myrmidons.  Aeschylus speaks of this fable as existing before his day.  See Scholiast on the Aves of Aristophanes, line 808. 6 Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193. 7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop, like the philosophers Phaedo, Menippus, and Epictetus, in later times, raised himself from the indignity of a servile condition to a position of high renown.  In his desire alike to instruct and to be instructed, he travelled through many countries, and among others came to Sardis, the capital of the famous king of Lydia, the great patron, in that day, of learning and of learned men. He met at the court of Croesus with Solon, Thales, and other sages, and is related so to have pleased his royal master, by the part he took in the conversations held with these philosophers, that he applied to him an expression which has since passed into a proverb, "The Phrygian has spoken better than all."On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis, and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and delicate affairs of State.  In his discharge of these commissions he visited the different petty republics of Greece.  At one time he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring, by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities, until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The blood of Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop, plainly indicates this double purpose to be the true office of the writer of fables.Duplex libelli dos est:  quod risum movet, Et quod prudenti vitam consilio monet.The continual observance of this twofold aim creates the charm, and accounts for the universal favor, of the fables of Aesop. "The fable," says Professor K. O. Mueller, "originated in Greece in an intentional travestie of human affairs.  The 'ainos,' as its name denotes, is an admonition, or rather a reproof veiled, either from fear of an excess of frankness, or from a love of fun and jest, beneath the fiction of an occurrence happening among beasts; and wherever we have any ancient and authentic account of the Aesopian fables, we find it to be the same."  lThe construction of a fable involves a minute attention to (1) the narration itself; (2) the deduction of the moral; and (3) a careful maintenance of the individual characteristics of the fictitious personages introduced into it.  The narration should relate to one simple action, consistent with itself, and neither be overladen with a multiplicity of details, nor distracted by a variety of circumstances.  The moral or lesson should be so plain, and so intimately interwoven with, and so necessarily dependent on, the narration, that every reader should be compelled to give to it the same undeniable interpretation.  The introduction of the animals or fictitious characters should be marked with an unexceptionable care and attention to their natural attributes, and to the qualities attributed to them by universal popular consent.  The Fox should be always cunning, the Hare timid, the Lion bold, the Wolf cruel, the Bull strong, the Horse proud, and the Ass patient.  Many of these fables are characterized by the strictest observance of these rules.  They are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moral naturally flows, and with which it is intimately associated. "'Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley, 2 "in which the morals of Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and gives him the preference over all other mythologists.  His 'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongest admonition against the power of flattery.  There is no need of a separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing it deeper, by that load we too often see of accumulated reflections."  3 An equal amount of praise is due for the consistency with which the characters of the animals, fictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an eminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel, of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack that unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals, which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable. This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Aesop.  Although the honor thus claimed cannot be definitely assigned to any one of these places, yet there are a few incidents now generally accepted by scholars as established facts, relating to the birth, life, and death of Aesop.  He is, by an almost universal consent, allowed to have been born about the year 620 B.C., and to have been by birth a slave.  He was owned by two masters in succession, both inhabitants of Samos, Xanthus and Jadmon, the latter of whom gave him his liberty as a reward for his learning and wit.  One of the privileges of a freedman in the ancient republics of Greece, was the permission to take an active interest in public affairs; and Aesop, like the philosophers Phaedo, Menippus, and Epictetus, in later times, raised himself from the indignity of a servile condition to a position of high renown.  In his desire alike to instruct and to be instructed, he travelled through many countries, and among others came to Sardis, the capital of the famous king of Lydia, the great patron, in that day, of learning and of learned men. He met at the court of Croesus with Solon, Thales, and other sages, and is related so to have pleased his royal master, by the part he took in the conversations held with these philosophers, that he applied to him an expression which has since passed into a proverb, "The Phrygian has spoken better than all."On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis, and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and delicate affairs of State.  In his discharge of these commissions he visited the different petty republics of Greece.  At one time he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring, by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities, until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The blood of Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop.  He is, by an almost universal consent, allowed to have been born about the year 620 B.C., and to have been by birth a slave.  He was owned by two masters in succession, both inhabitants of Samos, Xanthus and Jadmon, the latter of whom gave him his liberty as a reward for his learning and wit.  One of the privileges of a freedman in the ancient republics of Greece, was the permission to take an active interest in public affairs; and Aesop, like the philosophers Phaedo, Menippus, and Epictetus, in later times, raised himself from the indignity of a servile condition to a position of high renown.  In his desire alike to instruct and to be instructed, he travelled through many countries, and among others came to Sardis, the capital of the famous king of Lydia, the great patron, in that day, of learning and of learned men. He met at the court of Croesus with Solon, Thales, and other sages, and is related so to have pleased his royal master, by the part he took in the conversations held with these philosophers, that he applied to him an expression which has since passed into a proverb, "The Phrygian has spoken better than all."On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis, and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and delicate affairs of State.  In his discharge of these commissions he visited the different petty republics of Greece.  At one time he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring, by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities, until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The blood of Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop.  Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop. "The fable," says Professor K. O. Mueller, "originated in Greece in an intentional travestie of human affairs.  The 'ainos,' as its name denotes, is an admonition, or rather a reproof veiled, either from fear of an excess of frankness, or from a love of fun and jest, beneath the fiction of an occurrence happening among beasts; and wherever we have any ancient and authentic account of the Aesopian fables, we find it to be the same."  lThe construction of a fable involves a minute attention to (1) the narration itself; (2) the deduction of the moral; and (3) a careful maintenance of the individual characteristics of the fictitious personages introduced into it.  The narration should relate to one simple action, consistent with itself, and neither be overladen with a multiplicity of details, nor distracted by a variety of circumstances.  The moral or lesson should be so plain, and so intimately interwoven with, and so necessarily dependent on, the narration, that every reader should be compelled to give to it the same undeniable interpretation.  The introduction of the animals or fictitious characters should be marked with an unexceptionable care and attention to their natural attributes, and to the qualities attributed to them by universal popular consent.  The Fox should be always cunning, the Hare timid, the Lion bold, the Wolf cruel, the Bull strong, the Horse proud, and the Ass patient.  Many of these fables are characterized by the strictest observance of these rules.  They are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moral naturally flows, and with which it is intimately associated. "'Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley, 2 "in which the morals of Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and gives him the preference over all other mythologists.  His 'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongest admonition against the power of flattery.  There is no need of a separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing it deeper, by that load we too often see of accumulated reflections."  3 An equal amount of praise is due for the consistency with which the characters of the animals, fictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an eminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel, of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack that unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals, which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable. This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Aesopian fable. This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopian fables, we find it to be the same."  lThe construction of a fable involves a minute attention to (1) the narration itself; (2) the deduction of the moral; and (3) a careful maintenance of the individual characteristics of the fictitious personages introduced into it.  The narration should relate to one simple action, consistent with itself, and neither be overladen with a multiplicity of details, nor distracted by a variety of circumstances.  The moral or lesson should be so plain, and so intimately interwoven with, and so necessarily dependent on, the narration, that every reader should be compelled to give to it the same undeniable interpretation.  The introduction of the animals or fictitious characters should be marked with an unexceptionable care and attention to their natural attributes, and to the qualities attributed to them by universal popular consent.  The Fox should be always cunning, the Hare timid, the Lion bold, the Wolf cruel, the Bull strong, the Horse proud, and the Ass patient.  Many of these fables are characterized by the strictest observance of these rules.  They are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moral naturally flows, and with which it is intimately associated. "'Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley, 2 "in which the morals of Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and gives him the preference over all other mythologists.  His 'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongest admonition against the power of flattery.  There is no need of a separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing it deeper, by that load we too often see of accumulated reflections."  3 An equal amount of praise is due for the consistency with which the characters of the animals, fictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an eminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel, of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack that unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals, which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable. This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aethiop*THE PURCHASER of a black servant was persuaded that the color of his skin arose from dirt contracted through the neglect of his former masters.  On bringing him home he resorted to every means of cleaning, and subjected the man to incessant scrubbings.  The servant caught a severe cold, but he never changed his color or complexion.What's bred in the bone will stick to the flesh.$
 Afraid the dream should prove true, he built for his son a pleasant palace and adorned its walls for his amusement with all kinds of life-sized animals, among which was the picture of a lion.  When the young Prince saw this, his grief at being thus confined burst out afresh, and, standing near the lion, he said: "O you most detestable of animals! through a lying dream of my father's, which he saw in his sleep, I am shut up on your account in this palace as if I had been a girl:  what shall I now do to you?'  With these words he stretched out his hands toward a thorn-tree, meaning to cut a stick from its branches so that he might beat the lion.  But one of the tree's prickles pierced his finger and caused great pain and inflammation, so that the young Prince fell down in a fainting fit.  A violent fever suddenly set in, from which he died not many days later.We had better bear our troubles bravely than try to escape them.$
 After a few days he came forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who had attacked him, raged with angry fury.  Then they who had spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to him their flocks and begged only for their lives.  To them the Panther made this reply:  "I remember alike those who sought my life with stones, and those who gave me food aside, therefore, your fears.  I return as an enemy only to those who injured me."$
 After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that, if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf. Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may only secure my own escape from him in safety."$
 After a short time she returned, and when he inquired how she had got on and how the servants had treated her, she replied, "The herdsmen and shepherds cast on me looks of aversion."  He said, "O Wife, if you were disliked by those who go out early in the morning with their flocks and return late in the evening, what must have been felt towards you by those with whom you passed the whole day!"Straws show how the wind blows.$
 After a time he observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and he inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such a tremor every now and then.  Just at that moment a Gnat settled on the head of the Elephant, and he replied, "Do you see that little buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.  I should die presently."  The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myself dead.  I find myself, even as I am, better off than the Elephant."  ftp://foo.bar/bla$
 After a time he went to the daughter who had married the gardener, and inquired how she was and how all things went with her.  She said, "All things are prospering with me, and I have only one wish, that there may be a heavy fall of rain, in order that the plants may be well watered."  Not long after, he went to the daughter who had married the tilemaker, and likewise inquired of her how she fared; she replied, "I want for nothing, and have only one wish, that the dry weather may continue, and the sun shine hot and bright, so that the bricks might be dried."  He said to her, "If your sister wishes for rain, and you for dry weather, with which of the two am I to join my wishes?'$
 After a time, perceiving the meekness and gentleness of the beast's temper, he summoned courage enough to approach him.  Soon afterwards, observing that he was an animal altogether deficient in spirit, he assumed such boldness as to put a bridle in his mouth, and to let a child drive him.Use serves to overcome dread.$
 After a while he awoke, and looking upon the Sea, loaded it with reproaches.  He argued that it enticed men with the calmness of its looks, but when it had induced them to plow its waters, it grew rough and destroyed them.  The Sea, assuming the form of a woman, replied to him: "Blame not me, my good sir, but the winds, for I am by my own nature as calm and firm even as this earth; but the winds suddenly falling on me create these waves, and lash me into fury."$
 After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, Mercury disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost. The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery. Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to his house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One of them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep. Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  The Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.$
 After many of the beasts had thus disappeared, the Fox discovered the trick and presenting himself to the Lion, stood on the outside of the cave, at a respectful distance, and asked him how he was.  "I am very middling," replied the Lion, "but why do you stand without? Pray enter within to talk with me."  "No, thank you," said the Fox.  "I notice that there are many prints of feet entering your cave, but I see no trace of any returning."He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others.$
 After some time the Cottager, afraid that the Snake would bite him also, endeavored to make peace, and placed some bread and salt in the hole.  The Snake, slightly hissing, said:  "There can henceforth be no peace between us; for whenever I see you I shall remember the loss of my tail, and whenever you see me you will be thinking of the death of your son."No one truly forgets injuries in the presence of him who caused the injury.$
 After some time they began to think themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler, and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to govern them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints, sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there were none left to croak upon the lake.$
 After these preparations he signified that the two men should be brought before him, and greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer. On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded, if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too." The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 After this, he gradually led him towards the pool in which he lived, until reaching the very brink, he suddenly jumped in, dragging the Mouse with him.  The Frog enjoyed the water amazingly, and swam croaking about, as if he had done a good deed.  The unhappy Mouse was soon suffocated by the water, and his dead body floated about on the surface, tied to the foot of the Frog.  A Hawk observed it, and, pouncing upon it with his talons, carried it aloft.  The Frog, being still fastened to the leg of the Mouse, was also carried off a prisoner, and was eaten by the Hawk.Harm hatch, harm catch.$
 Again said the Wolf, "You drink of my well."  "No," exclaimed the Lamb, "I never yet drank water, for as yet my mother's milk is both food and drink to me."  Upon which the Wolf seized him and ate him up, saying, "Well! I won't remain supperless, even though you refute every one of my imputations."  The tyrant will always find a pretext for his tyranny.$
 Against the Sun*ONCE UPON A TIME, when the Sun announced his intention to take a wife, the Frogs lifted up their voices in clamor to the sky. Jupiter, disturbed by the noise of their croaking, inquired the cause of their complaint.  One of them said, "The Sun, now while he is single, parches up the marsh, and compels us to die miserably in our arid homes.  What will be our future condition if he should beget other suns?'$
 All of a sudden Robbers rushed upon them from their hiding-places, and in the scuffle with their owners, wounded with a sword the Mule carrying the treasure, which they greedily seized while taking no notice of the grain. The Mule which had been robbed and wounded bewailed his misfortunes.  The other replied, "I am indeed glad that I was thought so little of, for I have lost nothing, nor am I hurt with any wound."$
 All the beasts came to visit their king, except the Fox.  The Wolf therefore, thinking that he had a capital opportunity, accused the Fox to the Lion of not paying any respect to him who had the rule over them all and of not coming to visit him.  At that very moment the Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have come to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled from place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt from the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not to ill, but to good, will."$
 Although the honor thus claimed cannot be definitely assigned to any one of these places, yet there are a few incidents now generally accepted by scholars as established facts, relating to the birth, life, and death of Aesop.  He is, by an almost universal consent, allowed to have been born about the year 620 B.C., and to have been by birth a slave.  He was owned by two masters in succession, both inhabitants of Samos, Xanthus and Jadmon, the latter of whom gave him his liberty as a reward for his learning and wit.  One of the privileges of a freedman in the ancient republics of Greece, was the permission to take an active interest in public affairs; and Aesop, like the philosophers Phaedo, Menippus, and Epictetus, in later times, raised himself from the indignity of a servile condition to a position of high renown.  In his desire alike to instruct and to be instructed, he travelled through many countries, and among others came to Sardis, the capital of the famous king of Lydia, the great patron, in that day, of learning and of learned men. He met at the court of Croesus with Solon, Thales, and other sages, and is related so to have pleased his royal master, by the part he took in the conversations held with these philosophers, that he applied to him an expression which has since passed into a proverb, "The Phrygian has spoken better than all."On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis, and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and delicate affairs of State.  In his discharge of these commissions he visited the different petty republics of Greece.  At one time he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring, by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities, until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The blood of Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Amaranth*AN AMARANTH planted in a garden near a Rose-Tree, thus addressed it:  "What a lovely flower is the Rose, a favorite alike with Gods and with men.  I envy you your beauty and your perfume."  The Rose replied, "I indeed, dear Amaranth, flourish but for a brief season! If no cruel hand pluck me from my stem, yet I must perish by an early doom.  But thou art immortal and dost never fade, but bloomest for ever in renewed youth."$
 Amaranth, flourish but for a brief season! If no cruel hand pluck me from my stem, yet I must perish by an early doom.  But thou art immortal and dost never fade, but bloomest for ever in renewed youth."$
 Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leap anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many persons who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One of the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, if this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose this to be Rhodes, and leap for us."$
 Among the many plans suggested, the one that found most favor was the proposal to tie a bell to the neck of the Cat, so that the Mice, being warned by the sound of the tinkling, might run away and hide themselves in their holes at his approach.  But when the Mice further debated who among them should thus "bell the Cat," there was no one found to do it.$
 Among them came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part. The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd, observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes (which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience ) contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here," he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."$
 Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them. When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim; and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly deny."The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.$
 An Eagle sailing through the air pounced upon him and carried him off in his talons.  The vanquished Cock immediately came out of his corner, and ruled henceforth with undisputed mastery.Pride goes before destruction.$
 An Eagle, hovering near, heard her lamentation and demanded what reward she would give him if he would take her aloft and float her in the air.  "I will give you," she said, "all the riches of the Red Sea."  "I will teach you to fly then," said the Eagle; and taking her up in his talons he carried her almost to the clouds suddenly he let her go, and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashing her shell to pieces.  The Tortoise exclaimed in the moment of death:  "I have deserved my present fate; for what had I to do with wings and clouds, who can with difficulty move about on the earth?'If men had all they wished, they would be often ruined.$
 An Ox gave him this kindly warning:  "O unhappy creature! why should you thus, of your own accord, incur destruction and trust yourself in the house of your enemy?'  The Stag replied:  "Only allow me, friend, to stay where I am, and I will undertake to find some favorable opportunity of effecting my escape."  At the approach of the evening the herdsman came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and failed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them again answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag should be seized and killed.$
 An archer, who saw the Eagle from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," he exclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my own wings."$
 An equal amount of praise is due for the consistency with which the characters of the animals, fictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an eminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel, of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack that unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals, which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable. This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 An old oak, lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If we had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."$
 An old sly Fox, seeing this, said, "May I never make myself so ridiculous as you do in your pride and self-conceit; for even though you have the size of a lion among wolves, in a herd of lions you are definitely a wolf."$
 Ancient Greece, by K.  O. Mueller.  Vol.  i, p.  l9l.  London, Parker, 1858. 2 Select Fables of Aesop, and other Fabulists.  In three books, translated by Robert Dodsley, accompanied with a selection of notes, and an Essay on Fable. Birmingham, 1864.  P.  60. 3 Some of these fables had, no doubt, in the first instance, a primary and private interpretation.  On the first occasion of their being composed they were intended to refer to some passing event, or to some individual acts of wrong-doing.  Thus, the fables of the "Eagle and the Fox" and of the "Fox and Monkey' are supposed to have been written by Archilochus, to avenge the injuries done him by Lycambes.  So also the fables of the "Swollen Fox" and of the "Frogs asking a King" were spoken by Aesop for the immediate purpose of reconciling the inhabitants of Samos and Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and Pisistratus; while the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed to caution the inhabitants of Himera against granting a bodyguard to Phalaris.  In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the "Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the contemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus the favourite, and minister of Trajan.  These fables, however, though thus originating in special events, and designed at first to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as to be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal application. 4 Hesiod.  Opera et Dies, verse 202. 5 Aeschylus.  Fragment of the Myrmidons.  Aeschylus speaks of this fable as existing before his day.  See Scholiast on the Aves of Aristophanes, line 808. 6 Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193. 7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193. 7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 And after the Hare said this, he ran for his life.$
 And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his back a double burden.$
 And thus they both, along with their families, perished from hunger, and afforded ample provision for the Cat and her kittens.$
 And when he had got all she had, he healed her and demanded the promised payment.  The Old Woman, when she recovered her sight and saw none of her goods in her house, would give him nothing.  The Physician insisted on his claim, and.  as she still refused, summoned her before the Judge. The Old Woman, standing up in the Court, argued:  "This man here speaks the truth in what he says; for I did promise to give him a sum of money if I should recover my sight:  but if I continued blind, I was to give him nothing.  Now he declares that I am healed.  I on the contrary affirm that I am still blind; for when I lost the use of my eyes, I saw in my house various chattels and valuable goods:  but now, though he swears I am cured of my blindness, I am not able to see a single thing in it."$
 And, lastly, he inveighed against Minerva because she had not contrived iron wheels in the foundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more easily remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.  Jupiter, indignant at such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his office of judge, and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.$
 And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves. The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things, while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments their past folly.$
 Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Another Fox passing by heard his cries, and coming up, inquired the cause of his complaining.  On learning what had happened, he said to him, "Ah, you will have to remain there, my friend, until you become such as you were when you crept in, and then you will easily get out."$
 Another perished in a similar manner, and then a third, and still others after them.  A very old Mouse, who had escaped many a trap and snare, observed from a safe distance the trick of his crafty foe and said, "Ah! you that lie there, may you prosper just in the same proportion as you are what you pretend to be!"$
 Ant and the Dove*AN ANT went to the bank of a river to quench its thirst, and being carried away by the rush of the stream, was on the point of drowning.  A Dove sitting on a tree overhanging the water plucked a leaf and let it fall into the stream close to her.  The Ant climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.  Shortly afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laid his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.  The Ant, perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain the birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove take wing.$
 Ant climbed onto it and floated in safety to the bank.  Shortly afterwards a birdcatcher came and stood under the tree, and laid his lime-twigs for the Dove, which sat in the branches.  The Ant, perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain the birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove take wing.$
 Ant, perceiving his design, stung him in the foot.  In pain the birdcatcher threw down the twigs, and the noise made the Dove take wing.$
 Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Ants and the Grasshopper*THE ANTS were spending a fine winter's day drying grain collected in the summertime.  A Grasshopper, perishing with famine, passed by and earnestly begged for a little food.  The Ants inquired of him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  He replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days in singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enough to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in the winter."$
 Ants inquired of him, "Why did you not treasure up food during the summer?'  He replied, "I had not leisure enough.  I passed the days in singing."  They then said in derision:  "If you were foolish enough to sing all the summer, you must dance supperless to bed in the winter."$
 Ants, and Mercury*A PHILOSOPHER witnessed from the shore the shipwreck of a vessel, of which the crew and passengers were all drowned.  He inveighed against the injustice of Providence, which would for the sake of one criminal perchance sailing in the ship allow so many innocent persons to perish.  As he was indulging in these reflections, he found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand, said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner treated these poor Ants?'$
 Ants, near whose nest he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand, said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner treated these poor Ants?'$
 Ants?'$
 Ape and all his court, gratified with the lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer. On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded, if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too." The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 Ape announced this sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim; and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly deny."The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.$
 Ape quickly turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too." The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them. When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim; and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly deny."The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.$
 Ape*A WOLF accused a Fox of theft, but the Fox entirely denied the charge.  An Ape undertook to adjudge the matter between them. When each had fully stated his case the Ape announced this sentence:  "I do not think you, Wolf, ever lost what you claim; and I do believe you, Fox, to have stolen what you so stoutly deny."The dishonest, if they act honestly, get no credit.$
 Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too." The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 Apes and the Two Travelers*TWO MEN, one who always spoke the truth and the other who told nothing but lies, were traveling together and by chance came to the land of Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him, as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he signified that the two men should be brought before him, and greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer. On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded, if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too." The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 Apes be arranged in a long row on his right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him, as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he signified that the two men should be brought before him, and greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer. On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded, if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too." The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 Apes too." The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 Apes, who had raised himself to be king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him, as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he signified that the two men should be brought before him, and greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer. On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded, if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too." The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 Apes.  One of the Apes, who had raised himself to be king, commanded them to be seized and brought before him, that he might know what was said of him among men.  He ordered at the same time that all the Apes be arranged in a long row on his right hand and on his left, and that a throne be placed for him, as was the custom among men.  After these preparations he signified that the two men should be brought before him, and greeted them with this salutation:  "What sort of a king do I seem to you to be, O strangers?'  The Lying Traveler replied, "You seem to me a most mighty king."  "And what is your estimate of those you see around me?'  "These," he made answer, "are worthy companions of yourself, fit at least to be ambassadors and leaders of armies."  The Ape and all his court, gratified with the lie, commanded that a handsome present be given to the flatterer. On this the truthful Traveler thought to himself, "If so great a reward be given for a lie, with what gift may not I be rewarded, if, according to my custom, I tell the truth?'  The Ape quickly turned to him.  "And pray how do I and these my friends around me seem to you?'  "Thou art," he said, "a most excellent Ape, and all these thy companions after thy example are excellent Apes too." The King of the Apes, enraged at hearing these truths, gave him over to the teeth and claws of his companions.$
 Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Apollo and made the same promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appeared and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'$
 Apollo the laurel, Cybele the pine, and Hercules the poplar.  Minerva, wondering why they had preferred trees not yielding fruit, inquired the reason for their choice. Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor for the fruit."  But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will the olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit."  Then said Jupiter, "My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for unless what we do is useful, the glory of it is vain."$
 Apollo to release him, making a vow to offer some frankincense at his shrine.  But when rescued from his danger, he forgot his promise.  Shortly afterwards, again caught in a snare, he passed by Apollo and made the same promise to offer frankincense to Mercury.  Mercury soon appeared and said to him, "O thou most base fellow? how can I believe thee, who hast disowned and wronged thy former patron?'$
 Apollo, I shall indulge myself in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.  If you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together." The Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of her voice, eagerly flew up.  The Owl came forth from her hollow, seized her, and put her to death.$
 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from such vain disputings."$
 Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.  He resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors. He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second and a third blow with his axe.  When he reached the hollow of the tree, he found a hive full of honey.  Having tasted the honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as sacred, took great care of it.Self-interest alone moves some men.$
 Apple-Tree*A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but only served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.  He resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a bold stroke at its roots.  The grasshoppers and sparrows entreated him not to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but to spare it, and they would sing to him and lighten his labors. He paid no attention to their request, but gave the tree a second and a third blow with his axe.  When he reached the hollow of the tree, he found a hive full of honey.  Having tasted the honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking on the tree as sacred, took great care of it.Self-interest alone moves some men.$
 Apple-Tree, and Bramble*THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from such vain disputings."$
 Approaching them, he said, "What a clamor you would raise if I were to do as you are doing!"$
 Arab*AN ARAB CAMEL-DRIVER, after completing the loading of his Camel, asked him which he would like best, to go up hill or down.  The poor beast replied, not without a touch of reason:  "Why do you ask me? Is it that the level way through the desert is closed?"$
 Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Archilochus, to avenge the injuries done him by Lycambes.  So also the fables of the "Swollen Fox" and of the "Frogs asking a King" were spoken by Aesop for the immediate purpose of reconciling the inhabitants of Samos and Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and Pisistratus; while the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed to caution the inhabitants of Himera against granting a bodyguard to Phalaris.  In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the "Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the contemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus the favourite, and minister of Trajan.  These fables, however, though thus originating in special events, and designed at first to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as to be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal application. 4 Hesiod.  Opera et Dies, verse 202. 5 Aeschylus.  Fragment of the Myrmidons.  Aeschylus speaks of this fable as existing before his day.  See Scholiast on the Aves of Aristophanes, line 808. 6 Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193. 7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aristophanes, line 808. 6 Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193. 7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Arrow*AN EAGLE sat on a lofty rock, watching the movements of a Hare whom he sought to make his prey.  An archer, who saw the Eagle from a place of concealment, took an accurate aim and wounded him mortally.  The Eagle gave one look at the arrow that had entered his heart and saw in that single glance that its feathers had been furnished by himself.  "It is a double grief to me," he exclaimed, "that I should perish by an arrow feathered from my own wings."$
 Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Art.  Esope.$
 As he passed along, the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass, thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an Ass."They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to others.$
 As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he heard a Mother say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw you out of the window, and the Wolf shall eat you."  The Wolf sat all day waiting at the door.  In the evening he heard the same woman fondling her child and saying:  "You are quiet now, and if the Wolf should come, we will kill him."  The Wolf, hearing these words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.  When he reached his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned wearied and supperless, so contrary to his wont.  He replied:  "Why, forsooth! use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"$
 As he sailed off the coast of Greece, a violent tempest arose in which the ship was wrecked and he, his Monkey, and all the crew were obliged to swim for their lives.  A Dolphin saw the Monkey contending with the waves, and supposing him to be a man (whom he is always said to befriend), came and placed himself under him, to convey him on his back in safety to the shore.  When the Dolphin arrived with his burden in sight of land not far from Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend. The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey under the water and drowned him.$
 As he was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation, and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as we do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"$
 As he was indulging in these reflections, he found himself surrounded by a whole army of Ants, near whose nest he was standing.  One of them climbed up and stung him, and he immediately trampled them all to death with his foot.  Mercury presented himself, and striking the Philosopher with his wand, said, "And are you indeed to make yourself a judge of the dealings of Providence, who hast thyself in a similar manner treated these poor Ants?'$
 As long as the war lasted, he looked upon him as his fellow-helper in all emergencies and fed him carefully with hay and corn.  But when the war was over, he only allowed him chaff to eat and made him carry heavy loads of wood, subjecting him to much slavish drudgery and ill-treatment.  War was again proclaimed, however, and when the trumpet summoned him to his standard, the Soldier put on his charger its military trappings, and mounted, being clad in his heavy coat of mail.  The Horse fell down straightway under the weight, no longer equal to the burden, and said to his master, "You must now go to the war on foot, for you have transformed me from a Horse into an Ass; and how can you expect that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'$
 As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a Bull."It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in distress.$
 As soon as they were well away, the Fox departed without taking any notice of the Woodcutter:  whereon he called to him and reproached him, saying, "You ungrateful fellow, you owe your life to me, and yet you leave me without a word of thanks."  The Fox replied, "Indeed, I should have thanked you fervently if your deeds had been as good as your words, and if your hands had not been traitors to your speech."$
 As the Thief threw him the pieces of meat, the Dog said, "If you think to stop my mouth, you will be greatly mistaken.  This sudden kindness at your hands will only make me more watchful, lest under these unexpected favors to myself, you have some private ends to accomplish for your own benefit, and for my master's injury."$
 As the conversation began to flag, the Thief yawned terribly and at the same time howled like a wolf.  The Innkeeper said, "Why do you howl so fearfully?'  "I will tell you," said the Thief, "but first let me ask you to hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to pieces.  I know not, sir, when I got this habit of yawning, nor whether these attacks of howling were inflicted on me as a judgment for my crimes, or for any other cause; but this I do know, that when I yawn for the third time, I actually turn into a wolf and attack men."  With this speech he commenced a second fit of yawning and again howled like a wolf, as he had at first.  The Innkeeper.  hearing his tale and believing what he said, became greatly alarmed and, rising from his seat, attempted to run away. The Thief laid hold of his coat and entreated him to stop, saying, "Pray wait, sir, and hold my clothes, or I shall tear them to pieces in my fury, when I turn into a wolf."  At the same moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  The Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return again to the inn.Every tale is not to be believed.$
 As these thoughts passed through his mind, he met an Elephant and came close to hold a conversation with him.  After a time he observed that the Elephant shook his ears very often, and he inquired what was the matter and why his ears moved with such a tremor every now and then.  Just at that moment a Gnat settled on the head of the Elephant, and he replied, "Do you see that little buzzing insect? If it enters my ear, my fate is sealed.  I should die presently."  The Lion said, "Well, since so huge a beast is afraid of a tiny gnat, I will no more complain, nor wish myself dead.  I find myself, even as I am, better off than the Elephant."  ftp://foo.bar/bla$
 As they journeyed, they passed through a cemetery full of monuments. "All these monuments which you see," said the Monkey, "are erected in honor of my ancestors, who were in their day freedmen and citizens of great renown."  The Fox replied, "You have chosen a most appropriate subject for your falsehoods, as I am sure none of your ancestors will be able to contradict you."A false tale often betrays itself.$
 As they rested under its shade, one of the Travelers said to the other, "What a singularly useless tree is the Plane! It bears no fruit, and is not of the least service to man."  The Plane-Tree, interrupting him, said, "You ungrateful fellows! Do you, while receiving benefits from me and resting under my shade, dare to describe me as useless, and unprofitable?'Some men underrate their best blessings.$
 As they scampered off in large numbers to carry out their resolve, the Frogs lying on the banks of the lake heard the noise of their feet and ftp://foo.bar/baz rushed helter-skelter to the deep water for safety.  On seeing the rapid disappearance of the Frogs, one of the Hares cried out to his companions:  "Stay, my friends, do not do as you intended; for you now see that there are creatures who are still more timid than ourselves."$
 As they went along they chanced to pass a deep well, amply supplied with water, and when they saw it, one of the Frogs said to the other, "Let us descend and make our abode in this well:  it will furnish us with shelter and food."  The other replied with greater caution, "But suppose the water should fail us.  How can we get out again from so great a depth?'Do nothing without a regard to the consequences.$
 As they were disputing, they passed a statue carved in stone, which represented "a Lion strangled by a Man."  The traveler pointed to it and said:  "See there! How strong we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts."  The Lion replied:  "This statue was made by one of you men.  If we Lions knew how to erect statues, you would see the Man placed under the paw of the Lion."One story is good, till another is told.$
 As they were on the bare plowlands, eating there wheat-stocks and roots pulled up from the hedgerow, the Town Mouse said to his friend, "You live here the life of the ants, while in my house is the horn of plenty.  I am surrounded by every luxury, and if you will come with me, as I wish you would, you shall have an ample share of my dainties."  The Country Mouse was easily persuaded, and returned to town with his friend.  On his arrival, the Town Mouse placed before him bread, barley, beans, dried figs, honey, raisins, and, last of all, brought a dainty piece of cheese from a basket.  The Country Mouse, being much delighted at the sight of such good cheer, expressed his satisfaction in warm terms and lamented his own hard fate.  Just as they were beginning to eat, someone opened the door, and they both ran off squeaking, as fast as they could, to a hole so narrow that two could only find room in it by squeezing.  They had scarcely begun their repast again when someone else entered to take something out of a cupboard, whereupon the two Mice, more frightened than before, ran away and hid themselves.  At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bare plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in safety, and without fear."$
 As this afforded only protection for one, and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had, with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass galloped off.In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.$
 Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Asking for a King*THE FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent ambassadors to Jupiter entreating for a King.  Perceiving their simplicity, he cast down a huge log into the lake.  The Frogs were terrified at the splash occasioned by its fall and hid themselves in the depths of the pool.  But as soon as they realized that the huge log was motionless, they swam again to the top of the water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began squatting on it in contempt.  After some time they began to think themselves ill-treated in the appointment of so inert a Ruler, and sent a second deputation to Jupiter to pray that he would set over them another sovereign.  He then gave them an Eel to govern them.  When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent yet a third time to Jupiter to beg him to choose for them still another King.  Jupiter, displeased with all their complaints, sent a Heron, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till there were none left to croak upon the lake.$
 Ass Carrying the Image*AN ASS once carried through the streets of a city a famous wooden Image, to be placed in one of its Temples.  As he passed along, the crowd made lowly prostration before the Image.  The Ass, thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an Ass."They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to others.$
 Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing, together with his burden, himself as well."$
 Ass and His Driver*AN ASS, being driven along a high road, suddenly started off and bolted to the brink of a deep precipice.  While he was in the act of throwing himself over, his owner seized him by the tail, endeavoring to pull him back.  When the Ass persisted in his effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to your cost."$
 Ass and His Masters*AN ASS, belonging to an herb-seller who gave him too little food and too much work made a petition to Jupiter to be released from his present service and provided with another master.  Jupiter, after warning him that he would repent his request, caused him to be sold to a tile-maker.  Shortly afterwards, finding that he had heavier loads to carry and harder work in the brick-field, he petitioned for another change of master.  Jupiter, telling him that it would be the last time that he could grant his request, ordained that he be sold to a tanner.  The Ass found that he had fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation, said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have been either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, and make me useful to him."$
 Ass and His Purchaser*A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took the Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all. Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his companion."A man is known by the company he keeps.$
 Ass and His Shadow*A TRAVELER hired an Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one, and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had, with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass galloped off.In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.$
 Ass and a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled along the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule, groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing, together with his burden, himself as well."$
 Ass and the Charger*AN ASS congratulated a Horse on being so ungrudgingly and carefully provided for, while he himself had scarcely enough to eat and not even that without hard work.  But when war broke out, a heavily armed soldier mounted the Horse, and riding him to the charge, rushed into the very midst of the enemy.  The Horse was wounded and fell dead on the battlefield.  Then the Ass, seeing all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse.$
 Ass and the Frogs*AN ASS, carrying a load of wood, passed through a pond.  As he was crossing through the water he lost his footing, stumbled and fell, and not being able to rise on account of his load, groaned heavily.  Some Frogs frequenting the pool heard his lamentation, and said, "What would you do if you had to live here always as we do, when you make such a fuss about a mere fall into the water?"$
 Ass and the Grasshopper*AN ASS having heard some Grasshoppers chirping, was highly enchanted; and, desiring to possess the same charms of melody, demanded what sort of food they lived on to give them such beautiful voices.  They replied, "The dew."  The Ass resolved that he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger.$
 Ass and the Horse*AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed. "Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now eating I will give it you for the sake of my own superior dignity, and if you will come when I reach my own stall in the evening, I will give you a little sack full of barley."  The Ass replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me a little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater benefit."$
 Ass and the Lapdog*A MAN had an Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat, just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day like that useless little Lapdog!"$
 Ass and the Lion*A WILD ASS and a Lion entered into an alliance so that they might capture the beasts of the forest with greater ease.  The Lion agreed to assist the Wild Ass with his strength, while the Wild Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said, "because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and set off as fast as you can."Might makes right.$
 Ass and the Mule*A MULETEER set forth on a journey, driving before him an Ass and a Mule, both well laden.  The Ass, as long as he traveled along the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule, groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing, together with his burden, himself as well."$
 Ass and the Old Shepherd*A SHEPHERD, watching his Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass to fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name of their master.$
 Ass and the Wolf*AN ASS feeding in a meadow saw a Wolf approaching to seize him, and immediately pretended to be lame.  The Wolf, coming up, inquired the cause of his lameness.  The Ass replied that passing through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled, said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'$
 Ass at his leisure.$
 Ass both claimed it, a violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had, with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass galloped off.In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.$
 Ass carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion, bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said, "Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.$
 Ass entered into an agreement to assist each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion, bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said, "Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.$
 Ass feeding in a meadow, was alarmed all of a sudden by the cries of the enemy.  He appealed to the Ass to fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name of their master.$
 Ass fell down on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load. And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his back a double burden.$
 Ass found that he had fallen into worse hands, and noting his master's occupation, said, groaning:  "It would have been better for me to have been either starved by the one, or to have been overworked by the other of my former masters, than to have been bought by my present owner, who will even after I am dead tan my hide, and make me useful to him."$
 Ass galloped off.In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.$
 Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said, "because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and set off as fast as you can."Might makes right.$
 Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'$
 Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all. Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his companion."A man is known by the company he keeps.$
 Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured, immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his leisure.$
 Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule, groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing, together with his burden, himself as well."$
 Ass in the Lion's Skin*AN ASS, having put on the Lion's skin, roamed about in the forest and amused himself by frightening all the foolish animals he met in his wanderings.  At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightened myself, if I had not heard your bray."$
 Ass in the bargain.$
 Ass listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.$
 Ass on account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.$
 Ass on the highway. The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way. "Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'$
 Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had, with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass galloped off.In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.$
 Ass patient.  Many of these fables are characterized by the strictest observance of these rules.  They are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moral naturally flows, and with which it is intimately associated. "'Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley, 2 "in which the morals of Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and gives him the preference over all other mythologists.  His 'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongest admonition against the power of flattery.  There is no need of a separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing it deeper, by that load we too often see of accumulated reflections."  3 An equal amount of praise is due for the consistency with which the characters of the animals, fictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an eminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel, of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack that unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals, which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable. This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Ass persisted in his effort, the man let him go and said, "Conquer, but conquer to your cost."$
 Ass replied that passing through a hedge he had trod with his foot upon a sharp thorn.  He requested that the Wolf pull it out, lest when he ate him it should injure his throat.  The Wolf consented and lifted up the foot, and was giving his whole mind to the discovery of the thorn, when the Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled, said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'$
 Ass replied, "Thank you.  But I can't think that you, who refuse me a little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater benefit."$
 Ass resolved that he would live only upon dew, and in a short time died of hunger.$
 Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing yesterday, and you all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you very great amusement."$
 Ass saw that the huge beast could be assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a double death."$
 Ass shortly afterwards fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule, groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing, together with his burden, himself as well."$
 Ass that he would not be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured, immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his leisure.$
 Ass to a Horse?'$
 Ass to a neighboring fair to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The old man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, and continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not proceeded far when they met a company of women and children: "Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him. Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town. This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and, tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again, convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.$
 Ass to allot his due portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion, bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said, "Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.$
 Ass to convey him to a distant place.  The day being intensely hot, and the sun shining in its strength, the Traveler stopped to rest, and sought shelter from the heat under the Shadow of the Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one, and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had, with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass galloped off.In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.$
 Ass to fly with him, lest they should both be captured, but the animal lazily replied, "Why should I, pray? Do you think it likely the conqueror will place on me two sets of panniers?'  "No," rejoined the Shepherd.  "Then," said the Ass, "as long as I carry the panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name of their master.$
 Ass to his stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day like that useless little Lapdog!"$
 Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step, fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load. And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his back a double burden.$
 Ass together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town. This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and, tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again, convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.$
 Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat, just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day like that useless little Lapdog!"$
 Ass was secured, immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his leisure.$
 Ass with his strength, while the Wild Ass gave the Lion the benefit of his greater speed.  When they had taken as many beasts as their necessities required, the Lion undertook to distribute the prey, and for this purpose divided it into three shares.  "I will take the first share," he said, "because I am King:  and the second share, as a partner with you in the chase:  and the third share (believe me) will be a source of great evil to you, unless you willingly resign it to me, and set off as fast as you can."Might makes right.$
 Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day like that useless little Lapdog!"$
 Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him. Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town. This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and, tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again, convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.$
 Ass*A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway. The Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way. "Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'$
 Ass*A MAN once kept a Goat and an Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.$
 Ass*A MILLER and his son were driving their Ass to a neighboring fair to sell him.  They had not gone far when they met with a troop of women collected round a well, talking and laughing.  "Look there," cried one of them, "did you ever see such fellows, to be trudging along the road on foot when they might ride?'  The old man hearing this, quickly made his son mount the Ass, and continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not proceeded far when they met a company of women and children: "Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him. Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town. This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and, tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again, convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.$
 Ass*A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.  His road home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false step, fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load. And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his back a double burden.$
 Ass*AN ASS climbed up to the roof of a building, and frisking about there, broke in the tiling.  The owner went up after him and quickly drove him down, beating him severely with a thick wooden cudgel.  The Ass said, "Why, I saw the Monkey do this very thing yesterday, and you all laughed heartily, as if it afforded you very great amusement."$
 Ass*THE LION, the Fox and the Ass entered into an agreement to assist each other in the chase.  Having secured a large booty, the Lion on their return from the forest asked the Ass to allot his due portion to each of the three partners in the treaty.  The Ass carefully divided the spoil into three equal shares and modestly requested the two others to make the first choice.  The Lion, bursting out into a great rage, devoured the Ass.  Then he requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said, "Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.$
 Ass, "as long as I carry the panniers, what matters it to me whom I serve?'In a change of government the poor change nothing beyond the name of their master.$
 Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule, groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing, together with his burden, himself as well."$
 Ass, again playing the fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load. And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his back a double burden.$
 Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty.  The Ass was left in a stable and had plenty of oats and hay to eat, just as any other Ass would.  The Lapdog knew many tricks and was a great favorite with his master, who often fondled him and seldom went out to dine without bringing him home some tidbit to eat.  The Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day like that useless little Lapdog!"$
 Ass, and agreed with its owner that he should try out the animal before he bought him.  He took the Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses, upon which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all. Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his companion."A man is known by the company he keeps.$
 Ass, and continued to walk along merrily by his side.  Presently they came up to a group of old men in earnest debate.  "There," said one of them, "it proves what I was a-saying.  What respect is shown to old age in these days? Do you see that idle lad riding while his old father has to walk? Get down, you young scapegrace, and let the old man rest his weary limbs."  Upon this the old man made his son dismount, and got up himself.  In this manner they had not proceeded far when they met a company of women and children: "Why, you lazy old fellow," cried several tongues at once, "how can you ride upon the beast, while that poor little lad there can hardly keep pace by the side of you?'  The good-natured Miller immediately took up his son behind him.  They had now almost reached the town.    "Pray, honest friend," said a citizen, "is that Ass your own?'  "Yes," replied the old man.  "O, one would not have thought so," said the other, "by the way you load him. Why, you two fellows are better able to carry the poor beast than he you."  "Anything to please you," said the old man; "we can but try."  So, alighting with his son, they tied the legs of the Ass together and with the help of a pole endeavored to carry him on their shoulders over a bridge near the entrance to the town. This entertaining sight brought the people in crowds to laugh at it, till the Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and, tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again, convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.$
 Ass, as he returned to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day like that useless little Lapdog!"$
 Ass, as long as he traveled along the plain, carried his load with ease, but when he began to ascend the steep path of the mountain, felt his load to be more than he could bear.  He entreated his companion to relieve him of a small portion, that he might carry home the rest; but the Mule paid no attention to the request.  The Ass shortly afterwards fell down dead under his burden.  Not knowing what else to do in so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon the Mule the load carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and at the top of all placed the hide of the Ass, after he had skinned him.  The Mule, groaning beneath his heavy burden, said to himself:  "I am treated according to my deserts.  If I had only been willing to assist the Ass a little in his need, I should not now be bearing, together with his burden, himself as well."$
 Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way. "Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my heels."  The Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to the justice of the gods.  Not long afterwards the Horse, having become broken-winded, was sent by his owner to the farm.  The Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'$
 Ass, by witnessing his fate."Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.$
 Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass galloped off.In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.$
 Ass, making a false step, fell by accident and rose up again with his load considerably lighter, as the water melted the sack.  The Peddler retraced his steps and refilled his panniers with a larger quantity of salt than before.  When he came again to the stream, the Ass fell down on purpose in the same spot, and, regaining his feet with the weight of his load much diminished, brayed triumphantly as if he had obtained what he desired.  The Peddler saw through his trick and drove him for the third time to the coast, where he bought a cargo of sponges instead of salt.  The Ass, again playing the fool, fell down on purpose when he reached the stream, but the sponges became swollen with water, greatly increasing his load. And thus his trick recoiled on him, for he now carried on his back a double burden.$
 Ass, not liking the noise nor the strange handling that he was subject to, broke the cords that bound him and, tumbling off the pole, fell into the river.  Upon this, the old man, vexed and ashamed, made the best of his way home again, convinced that by endeavoring to please everybody he had pleased nobody, and lost his Ass in the bargain.$
 Ass, observing his trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and tore him to pieces.False confidence often leads into danger.$
 Ass, on the contrary, had much work to do in grinding the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens from the farm.  He often lamented his own hard fate and contrasted it with the luxury and idleness of the Lapdog, till at last one day he broke his cords and halter, and galloped into his master's house, kicking up his heels without measure, and frisking and fawning as well as he could.  He next tried to jump about his master as he had seen the Lapdog do, but he broke the table and smashed all the dishes upon it to atoms.  He then attempted to lick his master, and jumped upon his back.  The servants, hearing the strange hubbub and perceiving the danger of their master, quickly relieved him, and drove out the Ass to his stable with kicks and clubs and cuffs.  The Ass, as he returned to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus lamented:  "I have brought it all on myself! Why could I not have been contented to labor with my companions, and not wish to be idle all the day like that useless little Lapdog!"$
 Ass, seeing all these things, changed his mind, and commiserated the Horse.$
 Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him:  "Where, O boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself reduced to the condition you so lately treated with contempt?'$
 Ass, the Cock, and the Lion*AN ASS and a Cock were in a straw-yard together when a Lion, desperate from hunger, approached the spot.  He was about to spring upon the Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing his trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and tore him to pieces.False confidence often leads into danger.$
 Ass, the Fox, and the Lion*THE ASS and the Fox, having entered into partnership together for their mutual protection, went out into the forest to hunt.  They had not proceeded far when they met a Lion.  The Fox, seeing imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised to contrive for him the capture of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not to harm the Fox.  Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not be injured, the Fox led him to a deep pit and arranged that he should fall into it.  The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured, immediately clutched the Fox, and attacked the Ass at his leisure.$
 Ass, thinking that they bowed their heads in token of respect for himself, bristled up with pride, gave himself airs, and refused to move another step.  The driver, seeing him thus stop, laid his whip lustily about his shoulders and said, "O you perverse dull-head! it is not yet come to this, that men pay worship to an Ass."They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to others.$
 Ass, when the Cock (to the sound of whose voice the Lion, it is said, has a singular aversion) crowed loudly, and the Lion fled away as fast as he could.  The Ass, observing his trepidation at the mere crowing of a Cock summoned courage to attack him, and galloped after him for that purpose.  He had run no long distance, when the Lion, turning about, seized him and tore him to pieces.False confidence often leads into danger.$
 Ass, with his heels, kicked his teeth into his mouth and galloped away.  The Wolf, being thus fearfully mauled, said, "I am rightly served, for why did I attempt the art of healing, when my father only taught me the trade of a butcher?'$
 Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Ass.  As this afforded only protection for one, and as the Traveler and the owner of the Ass both claimed it, a violent dispute arose between them as to which of them had the right to the Shadow.  The owner maintained that he had let the Ass only, and not his Shadow.  The Traveler asserted that he had, with the hire of the Ass, hired his Shadow also.  The quarrel proceeded from words to blows, and while the men fought, the Ass galloped off.In quarreling about the shadow we often lose the substance.$
 Ass.  The Goat, envying the Ass on account of his greater abundance of food, said, "How shamefully you are treated:  at one time grinding in the mill, and at another carrying heavy burdens"; and he further advised him to pretend to be epileptic and fall into a ditch and so obtain rest.  The Ass listened to his words, and falling into a ditch, was very much bruised.  His master, sending for a leech, asked his advice.  He bade him pour upon the wounds the lungs of a Goat.  They at once killed the Goat, and so healed the Ass.$
 Ass.  Then he requested the Fox to do him the favor to make a division.  The Fox accumulated all that they had killed into one large heap and left to himself the smallest possible morsel.  The Lion said, "Who has taught you, my very excellent fellow, the art of division? You are perfect to a fraction."  He replied, "I learned it from the Ass, by witnessing his fate."Happy is the man who learns from the misfortunes of others.$
 Ass."They are not wise who give to themselves the credit due to others.$
 Ass.$
 Ass; and how can you expect that I can again turn in a moment from an Ass to a Horse?'$
 Asses, upon which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all. Seeing this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his owner.  On being asked how, in so short a time, he could have made a trial of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know that he will be just the same as the one he chose for his companion."A man is known by the company he keeps.$
 Astronomer*AN ASTRONOMER used to go out at night to observe the stars.  One evening, as he wandered through the suburbs with his whole attention fixed on the sky, he fell accidentally into a deep well.  While he lamented and bewailed his sores and bruises, and cried loudly for help, a neighbor ran to the well, and learning what had happened said:  "Hark ye, old fellow, why, in striving to pry into what is in heaven, do you not manage to see what is on earth?'$
 At last coming upon a Fox, he tried to frighten him also, but the Fox no sooner heard the sound of his voice than he exclaimed, "I might possibly have been frightened myself, if I had not heard your bray."$
 At last he collected as many stones as he could carry and dropped them one by one with his beak into the pitcher, until he brought the water within his reach and thus saved his life.Necessity is the mother of invention.$
 At last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  His Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The Mother upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! if you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus led to a disgraceful death."$
 At last she turned away, hiding her disappointment and saying: "The Grapes are sour, and not ripe as I thought."$
 At last the Country Mouse, almost famished, said to his friend:  "Although you have prepared for me so dainty a feast, I must leave you to enjoy it by yourself.  It is surrounded by too many dangers to please me.  I prefer my bare plowlands and roots from the hedgerow, where I can live in safety, and without fear."$
 At last the Goatherd threw a stone, and breaking its horn, begged the Goat not to tell his master. The Goat replied, "Why, you silly fellow, the horn will speak though I be silent."Do not attempt to hide things which cannot be hid.$
 At last waking up, and moving as fast as he could, he saw the Tortoise had reached the goal, and was comfortably dozing after her fatigue.Slow but steady wins the race.$
 At last, being very angry, he took his image down from its pedestal and dashed it against the wall. When its head was knocked off, out came a stream of gold, which the Carpenter quickly picked up and said, "Well, I think thou art altogether contradictory and unreasonable; for when I paid you honor, I reaped no benefits:  but now that I maltreat you I am loaded with an abundance of riches."$
 At last, having long waited in vain, he laid aside his flute, and casting his net into the sea, made an excellent haul of fish. When he saw them leaping about in the net upon the rock he said: "O you most perverse creatures, when I piped you would not dance, but now that I have ceased you do so merrily."$
 At night they returned home, not dreaming of any danger, but supposing that on the morrow they would find him dead.  The Panther, however, when he had recruited his feeble strength, freed himself with a sudden bound from the pit, and hastened to his den with rapid steps.  After a few days he came forth and slaughtered the cattle, and, killing the Shepherds who had attacked him, raged with angry fury.  Then they who had spared his life, fearing for their safety, surrendered to him their flocks and begged only for their lives.  To them the Panther made this reply:  "I remember alike those who sought my life with stones, and those who gave me food aside, therefore, your fears.  I return as an enemy only to those who injured me."$
 At nightfall they took shelter in a thick wood.  The Cock flying up, perched himself on the branches of a tree, while the Dog found a bed beneath in the hollow trunk.  When the morning dawned, the Cock, as usual, crowed very loudly several times.  A Fox heard the sound, and wishing to make a breakfast on him, came and stood under the branches, saying how earnestly he desired to make the acquaintance of the owner of so magnificent a voice. The Cock, suspecting his civilities, said:  "Sir, I wish you would do me the favor of going around to the hollow trunk below me, and waking my porter, so that he may open the door and let you in." When the Fox approached the tree, the Dog sprang out and caught him, and tore him to pieces.$
 At one time he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring, by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities, until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The blood of Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 At shearing time, wishing to take his fleece and to avoid expense, she sheared him herself, but used the shears so unskillfully that with the fleece she sheared the flesh.  The Sheep, writhing with pain, said, "Why do you hurt me so, Mistress? What weight can my blood add to the wool? If you want my flesh, there is the butcher, who will kill me in an instant; but if you want my fleece and wool, there is the shearer, who will shear and not hurt me."The least outlay is not always the greatest gain.$
 At that moment the master himself entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag should be seized and killed.$
 At that very moment the Fox came in and heard these last words of the Wolf.  The Lion roaring out in a rage against him, the Fox sought an opportunity to defend himself and said, "And who of all those who have come to you have benefited you so much as I, who have traveled from place to place in every direction, and have sought and learnt from the physicians the means of healing you?'  The Lion commanded him immediately to tell him the cure, when he replied, "You must flay a wolf alive and wrap his skin yet warm around you."  The Wolf was at once taken and flayed; whereon the Fox, turning to him, said with a smile, "You should have moved your master not to ill, but to good, will."$
 At the approach of the evening the herdsman came to feed his cattle, but did not see the Stag; and even the farm-bailiff with several laborers passed through the shed and failed to notice him.  The Stag, congratulating himself on his safety, began to express his sincere thanks to the Oxen who had kindly helped him in the hour of need.  One of them again answered him:  "We indeed wish you well, but the danger is not over.  There is one other yet to pass through the shed, who has as it were a hundred eyes, and until he has come and gone, your life is still in peril."  At that moment the master himself entered, and having had to complain that his oxen had not been properly fed, he went up to their racks and cried out:  "Why is there such a scarcity of fodder? There is not half enough straw for them to lie on.  Those lazy fellows have not even swept the cobwebs away."  While he thus examined everything in turn, he spied the tips of the antlers of the Stag peeping out of the straw.  Then summoning his laborers, he ordered that the Stag should be seized and killed.$
 At the same moment he yawned the third time and set up a terrible howl.  The Innkeeper, frightened lest he should be attacked, left his new coat in the Thief's hand and ran as fast as he could into the inn for safety.  The Thief made off with the coat and did not return again to the inn.Every tale is not to be believed.$
 At this moment she tossed her head in unison with her thoughts, when down fell the milk pail to the ground, and all her imaginary schemes perished in a moment.$
 At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 At which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do mischief."$
 Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend. The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey under the water and drowned him.$
 Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and Pisistratus; while the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed to caution the inhabitants of Himera against granting a bodyguard to Phalaris.  In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the "Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the contemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus the favourite, and minister of Trajan.  These fables, however, though thus originating in special events, and designed at first to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as to be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal application. 4 Hesiod.  Opera et Dies, verse 202. 5 Aeschylus.  Fragment of the Myrmidons.  Aeschylus speaks of this fable as existing before his day.  See Scholiast on the Aves of Aristophanes, line 808. 6 Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193. 7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend. The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey under the water and drowned him.$
 Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Athens, endeavouring, by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities, until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The blood of Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Athens, he asked the Monkey if he were an Athenian.  The latter replied that he was, and that he was descended from one of the most noble families in that city.  The Dolphin then inquired if he knew the Piraeus (the famous harbor of Athens).  Supposing that a man was meant, the Monkey answered that he knew him very well and that he was an intimate friend. The Dolphin, indignant at these falsehoods, dipped the Monkey under the water and drowned him.$
 Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Aves of Aristophanes, line 808. 6 Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193. 7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Away, therefore, with your insolence, for I know well when to go fast, and when to go slow."$
 Axe*A MAN came into a forest and asked the Trees to provide him a handle for his axe.  The Trees consented to his request and gave him a young ash-tree.  No sooner had the man fitted a new handle to his axe from it, than he began to use it and quickly felled with his strokes the noblest giants of the forest.  An old oak, lamenting when too late the destruction of his companions, said to a neighboring cedar, "The first step has lost us all.  If we had not given up the rights of the ash, we might yet have retained our own privileges and have stood for ages."$
 Axe*TWO MEN were journeying together.  One of them picked up an axe that lay upon the path, and said, "I have found an axe."  "Nay, my friend," replied the other, "do not say 'I,' but 'We' have found an axe."  They had not gone far before they saw the owner of the axe pursuing them, and he who had picked up the axe said, "We are undone."  "Nay," replied the other, "keep to your first mode of speech, my friend; what you thought right then, think right now. Say 'I,' not 'We' are undone."He who shares the danger ought to share the prize.$
 Axle-Trees*A HEAVY WAGON was being dragged along a country lane by a team of Oxen.  The Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not you, ought to cry out."Those who suffer most cry out the least.$
 Axle-trees groaned and creaked terribly; whereupon the Oxen, turning round, thus addressed the wheels:  "Hullo there! why do you make so much noise? We bear all the labor, and we, not you, ought to cry out."Those who suffer most cry out the least.$
 B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 B.C., and to have been by birth a slave.  He was owned by two masters in succession, both inhabitants of Samos, Xanthus and Jadmon, the latter of whom gave him his liberty as a reward for his learning and wit.  One of the privileges of a freedman in the ancient republics of Greece, was the permission to take an active interest in public affairs; and Aesop, like the philosophers Phaedo, Menippus, and Epictetus, in later times, raised himself from the indignity of a servile condition to a position of high renown.  In his desire alike to instruct and to be instructed, he travelled through many countries, and among others came to Sardis, the capital of the famous king of Lydia, the great patron, in that day, of learning and of learned men. He met at the court of Croesus with Solon, Thales, and other sages, and is related so to have pleased his royal master, by the part he took in the conversations held with these philosophers, that he applied to him an expression which has since passed into a proverb, "The Phrygian has spoken better than all."On the invitation of Croesus he fixed his residence at Sardis, and was employed by that monarch in various difficult and delicate affairs of State.  In his discharge of these commissions he visited the different petty republics of Greece.  At one time he is found in Corinth, and at another in Athens, endeavouring, by the narration of some of his wise fables, to reconcile the inhabitants of those cities to the administration of their respective rulers Periander and Pisistratus.  One of these ambassadorial missions, undertaken at the command of Croesus, was the occasion of his death.  Having been sent to Delphi with a large sum of gold for distribution among the citizens, he was so provoked at their covetousness that he refused to divide the money, and sent it back to his master.  The Delphians, enraged at this treatment, accused him of impiety, and, in spite of his sacred character as ambassador, executed him as a public criminal.  This cruel death of Aesop was not unavenged.  The citizens of Delphi were visited with a series of calamities, until they made a public reparation of their crime; and, "The blood of Aesop" became a well- known adage, bearing witness to the truth that deeds of wrong would not pass unpunished.  Neither did the great fabulist lack posthumous honors; for a statue was erected to his memory at Athens, the work of Lysippus, one of the most famous of Greek sculptors.  Phaedrus thus immortalizes the event:Aesopo ingentem statuam posuere Attici, Servumque collocarunt aeterna in basi: Patere honoris scirent ut cuncti viam; Nec generi tribui sed virtuti gloriam.These few facts are all that can be relied on with any degree of certainty, in reference to the birth, life, and death of Aesop. They were first brought to light, after a patient search and diligent perusal of ancient authors, by a Frenchman, M. Claude Gaspard Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang forth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have forsaken even the man on whose head they grew."$
 BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.   Shortly afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second time escaped.It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.$
 BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body. A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh! that you would eat the dead and not the living."$
 BEASTS of the field and forest had a Lion as their king.  He was neither wrathful, cruel, nor tyrannical, but just and gentle as a king could be.  During his reign he made a royal proclamation for a general assembly of all the birds and beasts, and drew up conditions for a universal league, in which the Wolf and the Lamb, the Panther and the Kid, the Tiger and the Stag, the Dog and the Hare, should live together in perfect peace and amity.  The Hare said, "Oh, how I have longed to see this day, in which the weak shall take their place with impunity by the side of the strong."  And after the Hare said this, he ran for his life.$
 BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which the Monkey stood up and danced.  Having vastly delighted the assembly, he sat down amidst universal applause.  The Camel, envious of the praises bestowed on the Monkey and desiring to divert to himself the favor of the guests, proposed to stand up in his turn and dance for their amusement.  He moved about in so utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit of indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the assembly.It is absurd to ape our betters.$
 BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs. Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying, "Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased, for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shall have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life. For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make, and then you will die from the loss of it."Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.$
 BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn? Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But my friend and I must have our dinners."Necessity knows no law.$
 BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight, always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery, he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and at night.$
 BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place where she might litter.  When her request was granted, she besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.  The shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected by the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place and would not permit the shepherd to approach.$
 BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was. He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the sheepfold."Evil tendencies are shown in early life.$
 BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be using them."$
 BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game, but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lion alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot out an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide the attack of the man himself?'Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.$
 BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray help me now and scold me afterwards."Counsel without help is useless.$
 BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."Do not attempt too much at once.$
 BOY stole a lesson-book from one of his schoolfellows and took it home to his Mother.  She not only abstained from beating him, but encouraged him.  He next time stole a cloak and brought it to her, and she again commended him.  The Youth, advanced to adulthood, proceeded to steal things of still greater value.  At last he was caught in the very act, and having his hands bound behind him, was led away to the place of public execution.  His Mother followed in the crowd and violently beat her breast in sorrow, whereupon the young man said, "I wish to say something to my Mother in her ear."  She came close to him, and he quickly seized her ear with his teeth and bit it off.  The Mother upbraided him as an unnatural child, whereon he replied, "Ah! if you had beaten me when I first stole and brought to you that lesson-book, I should not have come to this, nor have been thus led to a disgraceful death."$
 BOY was hunting for   locusts.  He had caught a goodly number, when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said: If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and all your locusts too!"$
 BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother, saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."Whatever you do, do with all your might.$
 BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water, cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to us."$
 BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away at his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day, pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you? While I am hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that none but those who work are entitled to eat?'$
 BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths have been caused by you."$
 BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do mischief."$
 BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up, and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I knew that way long before you were born."$
 BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a Bull."It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in distress.$
 BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them without fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own leisure.Union is strength.$
 BY the mountainside at sundown, a Wolf saw his own shadow become greatly extended and magnified, and he said to himself, "Why should I, being of such an immense size and extending nearly an acre in length, be afraid of the Lion? Ought I not to be acknowledged as King of all the collected beasts?'  While he was indulging in these proud thoughts, a Lion fell upon him and killed him.  He exclaimed with a too late repentance, "Wretched me! this overestimation of myself is the cause of my destruction."$
 Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Bachet de Mezeriac, who declined the honor of being tutor to Louis XIII of France, from his desire to devote himself exclusively to literature.  He published his Life of Aesop, Anno Domini 1632.  The later investigations of a host of English and German scholars have added very little to the facts given by M. Mezeriac.  The substantial truth of his statements has been confirmed by later criticism and inquiry.  It remains to state, that prior to this publication of M. Mezeriac, the life of Aesop was from the pen of Maximus Planudes, a monk of Constantinople, who was sent on an embassy to Venice by the Byzantine Emperor Andronicus the elder, and who wrote in the early part of the fourteenth century.  His life was prefixed to all the early editions of these fables, and was republished as late as 1727 by Archdeacon Croxall as the introduction to his edition of Aesop. This life by Planudes contains, however, so small an amount of truth, and is so full of absurd pictures of the grotesque deformity of Aesop, of wondrous apocryphal stories, of lying legends, and gross anachronisms, that it is now universally condemned as false, puerile, and unauthentic.  l It is given up in the present day, by general consent, as unworthy of the slightest credit. G.F.T.1 M. Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Bags*EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world with two bags suspended from his neck   all bag in front full of his neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with his own faults.  Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of others, and yet are often blind to their own failings.$
 Bald Knight*A BALD KNIGHT, who wore a wig, went out to hunt.  A sudden puff of wind blew off his hat and wig, at which a loud laugh rang forth from his companions.  He pulled up his horse, and with great glee joined in the joke by saying, "What a marvel it is that hairs which are not mine should fly from me, when they have forsaken even the man on whose head they grew."$
 Bald Man and the Fly*A FLY bit the bare head of a Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy it, gave himself a heavy slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly, "You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to injury?'  The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you, an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I had incurred a heavier penalty."$
 Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you, an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I had incurred a heavier penalty."$
 Bald Man who, endeavoring to destroy it, gave himself a heavy slap.  Escaping, the Fly said mockingly, "You who have wished to revenge, even with death, the Prick of a tiny insect, see what you have done to yourself to add insult to injury?'  The Bald Man replied, "I can easily make peace with myself, because I know there was no intention to hurt.  But you, an ill-favored and contemptible insect who delights in sucking human blood, I wish that I could have killed you even if I had incurred a heavier penalty."$
 Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second time escaped.It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.$
 Bat and the Weasels*A BAT who fell upon the ground and was caught by a Weasel pleaded to be spared his life.  The Weasel refused, saying that he was by nature the enemy of all birds.  The Bat assured him that he was not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.   Shortly afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second time escaped.It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.$
 Bat assured him that he was not a bird, but a mouse, and thus was set free.   Shortly afterwards the Bat again fell to the ground and was caught by another Weasel, whom he likewise entreated not to eat him.  The Weasel said that he had a special hostility to mice.  The Bat assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second time escaped.It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.$
 Bat assured him that he was not a mouse, but a bat, and thus a second time escaped.It is wise to turn circumstances to good account.$
 Bat*THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight, always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery, he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and at night.$
 Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight, always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery, he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and at night.$
 Bathing*A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray help me now and scold me afterwards."Counsel without help is useless.$
 Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Bayle thus characterises this Life of Aesop by Planudes, "Tous les habiles gens conviennent que c'est un roman, et que les absurdites grossieres qui l'on y trouve le rendent indigne de toute." Dictionnaire Historique.  Art.  Esope.$
 Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Bear and the Fox*A BEAR boasted very much of his philanthropy, saying that of all animals he was the most tender in his regard for man, for he had such respect for him that he would not even touch his dead body. A Fox hearing these words said with a smile to the Bear, "Oh! that you would eat the dead and not the living."$
 Bear and the Two Travelers*TWO MEN were traveling together, when a Bear suddenly met them on their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who deserts you at the approach of danger."Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.$
 Bear came up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who deserts you at the approach of danger."Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.$
 Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who deserts you at the approach of danger."Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.$
 Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said, "Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves only to serve the turn of a Fox."It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another all the profit.$
 Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated each other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a distance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground with the Kid lying untouched in the middle.  He ran in between them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  The Lion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said, "Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves only to serve the turn of a Fox."It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another all the profit.$
 Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who deserts you at the approach of danger."Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.$
 Bear suddenly met them on their path.  One of them climbed up quickly into a tree and concealed himself in the branches.  The other, seeing that he must be attacked, fell flat on the ground, and when the Bear came up and felt him with his snout, and smelt him all over, he held his breath, and feigned the appearance of death as much as he could.  The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch a dead body.  When he was quite gone, the other Traveler descended from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend what it was the Bear had whispered in his ear.  "He gave me this advice," his companion replied.  "Never travel with a friend who deserts you at the approach of danger."Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends.$
 Bear, "Oh! that you would eat the dead and not the living."$
 Bear, and the Fox*A LION and a Bear seized a Kid at the same moment, and fought fiercely for its possession.  When they had fearfully lacerated each other and were faint from the long combat, they lay down exhausted with fatigue.  A Fox, who had gone round them at a distance several times, saw them both stretched on the ground with the Kid lying untouched in the middle.  He ran in between them, and seizing the Kid scampered off as fast as he could.  The Lion and the Bear saw him, but not being able to get up, said, "Woe be to us, that we should have fought and belabored ourselves only to serve the turn of a Fox."It sometimes happens that one man has all the toil, and another all the profit.$
 Beards*THE SHE-GOATS having obtained a beard by request to Jupiter, the He-Goats were sorely displeased and made complaint that the females equaled them in dignity.  "Allow them," said Jupiter, "to enjoy an empty honor and to assume the badge of your nobler sex, so long as they are not your equals in strength or courage."It matters little if those who are inferior to us in merit should be like us in outside appearances.$
 Beasts, and each were by turns the conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight, always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery, he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and at night.$
 Beasts, and so pleased them all by his performance that they elected him their King.  A Fox, envying him the honor, discovered a piece of meat lying in a trap, and leading the Monkey to the place where it was, said that she had found a store, but had not used it  e had kept it for him as treasure trove of his kingdom, and counseled him to lay hold of it.  The Monkey approached carelessly and was caught in the trap; and on his accusing the Fox of purposely leading him into the snare, she replied, "O Monkey, and are you, with such a mind as yours, going to be King over the Beasts?"$
 Beasts, and the Bat*THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight, always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery, he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and at night.$
 Beasts, in a fit of indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of the assembly.It is absurd to ape our betters.$
 Beasts?"$
 Bee and Jupiter*A BEE from Mount Hymettus, the queen of the hive, ascended to Olympus to present Jupiter some honey fresh from her combs. Jupiter, delighted with the offering of honey, promised to give whatever she should ask.  She therefore besought him, saying, "Give me, I pray thee, a sting, that if any mortal shall approach to take my honey, I may kill him."  Jupiter was much displeased, for he loved the race of man, but could not refuse the request because of his promise.  He thus answered the Bee:  "You shall have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life. For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make, and then you will die from the loss of it."Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.$
 Bee:  "You shall have your request, but it will be at the peril of your own life. For if you use your sting, it shall remain in the wound you make, and then you will die from the loss of it."Evil wishes, like chickens, come home to roost.$
 Being in want of food, he called to a Sheep who was passing, and asked him to fetch some water from a stream flowing close beside him.  "For," he said, "if you will bring me drink, I will find means to provide myself with meat."  "Yes," said the Sheep, "if I should bring you the draught, you would doubtless make me provide the meat also."Hypocritical speeches are easily seen through.$
 Being naturally great mimics of men's actions, they showed themselves most apt pupils, and when arrayed in their rich clothes and masks, they danced as well as any of the courtiers.  The spectacle was often repeated with great applause, till on one occasion a courtier, bent on mischief, took from his pocket a handful of nuts and threw them upon the stage.  The Monkeys at the sight of the nuts forgot their dancing and became (as indeed they were) Monkeys instead of actors.  Pulling off their masks and tearing their robes, they fought with one another for the nuts.  The dancing spectacle thus came to an end amidst the laughter and ridicule of the audience.The Fox and the LeopardTHE FOX and the Leopard disputed which was the more beautiful of the two.  The Leopard exhibited one by one the various spots which decorated his skin.  But the Fox, interrupting him, said, "And how much more beautiful than you am I, who am decorated, not in body, but in mind."$
 Being thus deprived of the means of his livelihood, he sat down on the bank and lamented his hard fate.  Mercury appeared and demanded the cause of his tears. After he told him his misfortune, Mercury plunged into the stream, and, bringing up a golden axe, inquired if that were the one he had lost.  On his saying that it was not his, Mercury disappeared beneath the water a second time, returned with a silver axe in his hand, and again asked the Workman if it were his.  When the Workman said it was not, he dived into the pool for the third time and brought up the axe that had been lost. The Workman claimed it and expressed his joy at its recovery. Mercury, pleased with his honesty, gave him the golden and silver axes in addition to his own.    The Workman, on his return to his house, related to his companions all that had happened.  One of them at once resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for himself.  He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into the pool at the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep. Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having learned the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and brought up a golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.  The Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was the very same axe that he had lost.  Mercury, displeased at his knavery, not only took away the golden axe, but refused to recover for him the axe he had thrown into the pool.$
 Belly and the Members*THE MEMBERS of the Body rebelled against the Belly, and said, "Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet, mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.$
 Belly, and said, "Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet, mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.$
 Belly.  The whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet, mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.$
 Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Besides, I am no Crane, I am a Stork, a bird of excellent character; and see how I love and slave for my father and mother.  Look too, at my feathers-- they are not the least like those of a Crane."   The Farmer laughed aloud and said, "It may be all as you say, I only know this:  I have taken you with these robbers, the Cranes, and you must die in their company."Birds of a feather flock together.$
 Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn? Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But my friend and I must have our dinners."Necessity knows no law.$
 Birdcatcher, the Partridge, and the Cock*A BIRDCATCHER was about to sit down to a dinner of herbs when a friend unexpectedly came in.  The bird-trap was quite empty, as he had caught nothing, and he had to kill a pied Partridge, which he had tamed for a decoy.  The bird entreated earnestly for his life:  "What would you do without me when next you spread your nets? Who would chirp you to sleep, or call for you the covey of answering birds?'  The Birdcatcher spared his life, and determined to pick out a fine young Cock just attaining to his comb.  But the Cock expostulated in piteous tones from his perch:  "If you kill me, who will announce to you the appearance of the dawn? Who will wake you to your daily tasks or tell you when it is time to visit the bird-trap in the morning?'  He replied, "What you say is true.  You are a capital bird at telling the time of day.  But my friend and I must have our dinners."Necessity knows no law.$
 Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things, while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments their past folly.$
 Birds in a certain aviary were ailing dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did, saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, and shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away, and leave us as we are."$
 Birds that when the acorn first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe, from which an irremediable poison, the bird- lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured. The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them. And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves. The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things, while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments their past folly.$
 Birds themselves. The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things, while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments their past folly.$
 Birds!"  This he said deceitfully; but the Crow, anxious to refute the reflection cast upon her voice, set up a loud caw and dropped the flesh.  The Fox quickly picked it up, and thus addressed the Crow:  "My good Crow, your voice is right enough, but your wit is wanting."$
 Birds*A CAT, hearing that the Birds in a certain aviary were ailing dressed himself up as a physician, and, taking his cane and a bag of instruments becoming his profession, went to call on them.  He knocked at the door and inquired of the inmates how they all did, saying that if they were ill, he would be happy to prescribe for them and cure them.  They replied, "We are all very well, and shall continue so, if you will only be good enough to go away, and leave us as we are."$
 Birds*AN OWL, in her wisdom, counseled the Birds that when the acorn first began to sprout, to pull it all up out of the ground and not allow it to grow.  She said acorns would produce mistletoe, from which an irremediable poison, the bird- lime, would be extracted and by which they would be captured. The Owl next advised them to pluck up the seed of the flax, which men had sown, as it was a plant which boded no good to them. And, lastly, the Owl, seeing an archer approach, predicted that this man, being on foot, would contrive darts armed with feathers which would fly faster than the wings of the Birds themselves. The Birds gave no credence to these warning words, but considered the Owl to be beside herself and said that she was mad.  But afterwards, finding her words were true, they wondered at her knowledge and deemed her to be the wisest of birds.  Hence it is that when she appears they look to her as knowing all things, while she no longer gives them advice, but in solitude laments their past folly.$
 Birds, the Beasts, and the Bat*THE BIRDS waged war with the Beasts, and each were by turns the conquerors.  A Bat, fearing the uncertain issues of the fight, always fought on the side which he felt was the strongest.  When peace was proclaimed, his deceitful conduct was apparent to both combatants.  Therefore being condemned by each for his treachery, he was driven forth from the light of day, and henceforth concealed himself in dark hiding-places, flying always alone and at night.$
 Birmingham, 1864.  P.  60. 3 Some of these fables had, no doubt, in the first instance, a primary and private interpretation.  On the first occasion of their being composed they were intended to refer to some passing event, or to some individual acts of wrong-doing.  Thus, the fables of the "Eagle and the Fox" and of the "Fox and Monkey' are supposed to have been written by Archilochus, to avenge the injuries done him by Lycambes.  So also the fables of the "Swollen Fox" and of the "Frogs asking a King" were spoken by Aesop for the immediate purpose of reconciling the inhabitants of Samos and Athens to their respective rulers, Periander and Pisistratus; while the fable of the "Horse and Stag" was composed to caution the inhabitants of Himera against granting a bodyguard to Phalaris.  In a similar manner, the fable from Phaedrus, the "Marriage of the Sun," is supposed to have reference to the contemplated union of Livia, the daughter of Drusus, with Sejanus the favourite, and minister of Trajan.  These fables, however, though thus originating in special events, and designed at first to meet special circumstances, are so admirably constructed as to be fraught with lessons of general utility, and of universal application. 4 Hesiod.  Opera et Dies, verse 202. 5 Aeschylus.  Fragment of the Myrmidons.  Aeschylus speaks of this fable as existing before his day.  See Scholiast on the Aves of Aristophanes, line 808. 6 Fragment.  38, ed.  Gaisford.  See also Mueller's History of the Literature of Ancient Greece, vol.  i.  pp.  190-193. 7 M. Bayle has well put this in his account of Aesop.  "Il n'y a point d'apparence que les fables qui portent aujourd'hui son nom soient les memes qu'il avait faites; elles viennent bien de lui pour la plupart, quant a la matiere et la pensee; mais les paroles sont d'un autre."  And again, "C'est donc a Hesiode, que j'aimerais mieux attribuer la gloire de l'invention; mais sans doute il laissa la chose tres imparfaite.  Esope la perfectionne si heureusement, qu'on l'a regarde comme le vrai pere de cette sorte de production."   M. Bayle.  Dictionnaire Historique. 8 Plato in Ph2done. 9 Apologos en! misit tibi Ab usque Rheni limite Ausonius nomen Italum Praeceptor Augusti tui Aesopiam trimetriam; Quam vertit exili stylo Pedestre concinnans opus Fandi Titianus artifex. Ausonii Epistola, xvi.  75-80. 10 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Bitch and Her Whelps*A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place where she might litter.  When her request was granted, she besought permission to rear her puppies in the same spot.  The shepherd again consented.  But at last the Bitch, protected by the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place and would not permit the shepherd to approach.$
 Bitch, protected by the bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able to defend themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place and would not permit the shepherd to approach.$
 Bitten by a Dog*A MAN who had been bitten by a Dog went about in quest of someone who might heal him.  A friend, meeting him and learning what he wanted, said, "If you would be cured, take a piece of bread, and dip it in the blood from your wound, and go and give it to the Dog that bit you."  The Man who had been bitten laughed at this advice and said, "Why? If I should do so, it would be as if I should beg every Dog in the town to bite me."Benefits bestowed upon the evil-disposed increase their means of injuring you.$
 Blind Man and the Whelp*A BLIND MAN was accustomed to distinguishing different animals by touching them with his hands.  The whelp of a Wolf was brought him, with a request that he would feel it, and say what it was. He felt it, and being in doubt, said:  "I do not quite know whether it is the cub of a Fox, or the whelp of a Wolf, but this I know full well.  It would not be safe to admit him to the sheepfold."Evil tendencies are shown in early life.$
 Boar and the Fox*A WILD BOAR stood under a tree and rubbed his tusks against the trunk.  A Fox passing by asked him why he thus sharpened his teeth when there was no danger threatening from either huntsman or hound.  He replied, "I do it advisedly; for it would never do to have to sharpen my weapons just at the time I ought to be using them."$
 Boar came at the same moment to a small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal combat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make friends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."$
 Boar rushed upon him, and avenged with a stroke of his tusks a long-remembered injury. Shortly afterwards the Bull with his horns gored him as if he were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a double death."$
 Boar*ON A SUMMER DAY, when the great heat induced a general thirst among the beasts, a Lion and a Boar came at the same moment to a small well to drink.  They fiercely disputed which of them should drink first, and were soon engaged in the agonies of a mortal combat.  When they stopped suddenly to catch their breath for a fiercer renewal of the fight, they saw some Vultures waiting in the distance to feast on the one that should fall first.  They at once made up their quarrel, saying, "It is better for us to make friends, than to become the food of Crows or Vultures."$
 Boasting Traveler*A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted very much, on returning to his own country, of the many wonderful and heroic feats he had performed in the different places he had visited. Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had leaped to such a distance that no man of his day could leap anywhere near him as to that, there were in Rhodes many persons who saw him do it and whom he could call as witnesses.  One of the bystanders interrupted him, saying:  "Now, my good man, if this be all true there is no need of witnesses.  Suppose this to be Rhodes, and leap for us."$
 Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet, mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.$
 Body rebelled against the Belly, and said, "Why should we be perpetually engaged in administering to your wants, while you do nothing but take your rest, and enjoy yourself in luxury and self-indulgence?'  The Members carried out their resolve and refused their assistance to the Belly.  The whole Body quickly became debilitated, and the hands, feet, mouth, and eyes, when too late, repented of their folly.$
 Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Both of the performers appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes (which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience ) contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here," he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."$
 Both these publications are in the British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Bowman and Lion*A VERY SKILLFUL BOWMAN went to the mountains in search of game, but all the beasts of the forest fled at his approach.  The Lion alone challenged him to combat.  The Bowman immediately shot out an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide the attack of the man himself?'Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.$
 Bowman immediately shot out an arrow and said to the Lion:  "I send thee my messenger, that from him thou mayest learn what I myself shall be when I assail thee."  The wounded Lion rushed away in great fear, and when a Fox who had seen it all happen told him to be of good courage and not to back off at the first attack he replied:  "You counsel me in vain; for if he sends so fearful a messenger, how shall I abide the attack of the man himself?'Be on guard against men who can strike from a distance.$
 Boy Bathing*A BOY bathing in a river was in danger of being drowned.  He called out to a passing traveler for help, but instead of holding out a helping hand, the man stood by unconcernedly, and scolded the boy for his imprudence.  "Oh, sir!"  cried the youth, "pray help me now and scold me afterwards."Counsel without help is useless.$
 Boy Hunting Locusts*A BOY was hunting for   locusts.  He had caught a goodly number, when he saw a Scorpion, and mistaking him for a locust, reached out his hand to take him.  The Scorpion, showing his sting, said: If you had but touched me, my friend, you would have lost me, and all your locusts too!"$
 Boy and the Filberts*A BOY put his hand into a pitcher full of filberts.  He grasped as many as he could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull out his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the pitcher.  Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to withdraw his hand, he burst into tears and bitterly lamented his disappointment.  A bystander said to him, "Be satisfied with half the quantity, and you will readily draw out your hand."Do not attempt too much at once.$
 Boy and the Nettles*A BOY was stung by a Nettle.  He ran home and told his Mother, saying, "Although it hurts me very much, I only touched it gently."  "That was just why it stung you," said his Mother.  "The next time you touch a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be soft as silk to your hand, and not in the least hurt you."Whatever you do, do with all your might.$
 Boy and the Wolf*A SHEPHERD-BOY, who watched a flock of sheep near a village, brought out the villagers three or four times by crying out, "Wolf! Wolf!"  and when his neighbors came to help him, laughed at them for their pains.  The Wolf, however, did truly come at last. The Shepherd-boy, now really alarmed, shouted in an agony of terror:  "Pray, do come and help me; the Wolf is killing the sheep"; but no one paid any heed to his cries, nor rendered any assistance.  The Wolf, having no cause of fear, at his leisure lacerated or destroyed the whole flock.There is no believing a liar, even when he speaks the truth.$
 Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Boyle.$
 Boys and the Frogs*SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of Frogs in the water and began to pelt them with stones.  They killed several of them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water, cried out:  "Pray stop, my boys:  what is sport to you, is death to us."$
 Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a Fir-Tree."Better poverty without care, than riches with.$
 Bramble because, when he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."$
 Bramble from the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from such vain disputings."$
 Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked and grievously tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."$
 Bramble*A FIR-TREE said boastingly to the Bramble, "You are useful for nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses." The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a Fir-Tree."Better poverty without care, than riches with.$
 Bramble*A FOX was mounting a hedge when he lost his footing and caught hold of a Bramble to save himself.  Having pricked and grievously tom the soles of his feet, he accused the Bramble because, when he had fled to her for assistance, she had used him worse than the hedge itself.  The Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."$
 Bramble*THE POMEGRANATE and Apple-Tree disputed as to which was the most beautiful.  When their strife was at its height, a Bramble from the neighboring hedge lifted up its voice, and said in a boastful tone:  "Pray, my dear friends, in my presence at least cease from such vain disputings."$
 Bramble, "You are useful for nothing at all; while I am everywhere used for roofs and houses." The Bramble answered:  'You poor creature, if you would only call to mind the axes and saws which are about to hew you down, you would have reason to wish that you had grown up a Bramble, not a Fir-Tree."Better poverty without care, than riches with.$
 Bramble, interrupting him, said, "But you really must have been out of your senses to fasten yourself on me, who am myself always accustomed to fasten upon others."$
 Bramble, not a Fir-Tree."Better poverty without care, than riches with.$
 Brass Pot, "Pray keep at a distance and do not come near me, for if you touch me ever so slightly, I shall be broken in pieces, and besides, I by no means wish to come near you."Equals make the best friends.$
 Brazier and His Dog*A BRAZIER had a little Dog, which was a great favorite with his master, and his constant companion.  While he hammered away at his metals the Dog slept; but when, on the other hand, he went to dinner and began to eat, the Dog woke up and wagged his tail, as if he would ask for a share of his meal.  His master one day, pretending to be angry and shaking his stick at him, said, "You wretched little sluggard! what shall I do to you? While I am hammering on the anvil, you sleep on the mat; and when I begin to eat after my toil, you wake up and wag your tail for food.  Do you not know that labor is the source of every blessing, and that none but those who work are entitled to eat?'$
 Bricklayer earnestly recommended bricks as affording the best material for an effective resistance.  A Carpenter, with equal enthusiasm, proposed timber as a preferable method of defense.  Upon which a Currier stood up and said, "Sirs, I differ from you altogether:  there is no material for resistance equal to a covering of hides; and nothing so good as leather."Every man for himself.$
 British Museum, and are placed in the library in cases under glass, for the inspection of the curious. ll Fables may possibly have been not entirely unknown to the mediaeval scholars.  There are two celebrated works which might by some be classed amongst works of this description.  The one is the "Speculum Sapientiae," attributed to St.  Cyril, Archbishop of Jerusalem, but of a considerably later origin, and existing only in Latin.  It is divided into four books, and consists of long conversations conducted by fictitious characters under the figures  the beasts of the field and forest, and aimed at the rebuke of particular classes of men, the boastful, the proud, the luxurious, the wrathful, &c.  None of the stories are precisely those of Aesop, and none have the concinnity, terseness, and unmistakable deduction of the lesson intended to be taught by the fable, so conspicuous in the great Greek fabulist.  The exact title of the book is this:  "Speculum Sapientiae, B.  Cyrilli Episcopi:  alias quadripartitus apologeticus vocatus, in cujus quidem proverbiis omnis et totius sapientiae speculum claret et feliciter incipit."  The other is a larger work in two volumes, published in the fourteenth century by Caesar Heisterbach, a Cistercian monk, under the title of "Dialogus Miraculorum," reprinted in 1851.  This work consists of conversations in which many stories are interwoven on all kinds of subjects.  It has no correspondence with the pure Aesopian fable. 12 Post-medieval Preachers, by S. Baring-Gould.  Rivingtons, 1865. 13 For an account of this work see the Life of Poggio Bracciolini, by the Rev.  William Shepherd.  Liverpool.  1801. 14 Professor Theodore Bergh.  See Classical Museum, No.  viii. July, 1849. 15 Vavassor's treatise, entitled "De Ludicra Dictione" was written A.D.  1658, at the request of the celebrated M. Balzac (though published after his death), for the purpose of showing that the burlesque style of writing adopted by Scarron and D'Assouci, and at that time so popular in France, had no sanction from the ancient classic writers.  Francisci Vavassoris opera omnia. Amsterdam. 1709. 16 The claims of Babrias also found a warm advocate in the learned Frenchman, M. Bayle, who, in his admirable dictionary, (Dictionnaire Historique et Critique de Pierre Bayle.  Paris, 1820,) gives additional arguments in confirmation of the opinions of his learned predecessors, Nevelet and Vavassor. 17 Scazonic, or halting, iambics; a choliambic (a lame, halting iambic) differs from the iambic Senarius in always having a spondee or trichee for its last foot; the fifth foot, to avoid shortness of meter, being generally an iambic.  See Fables of Babrias, translated by Rev.  James Davies.  Lockwood, 1860. Preface, p.  27. 18 See Dr. Bentley's Dissertations upon the Epistles of Phalaris. 19 Dr. Bentley's Dissertations on the Epistles of Phalaris, and Fables of Aesop examined.     By the Honorable Charles Boyle.$
 Brother and the Sister*A FATHER had one son and one daughter, the former remarkable for his good looks, the latter for her extraordinary ugliness.  While they were playing one day as children, they happened by chance to look together into a mirror that was placed on their mother's chair.  The boy congratulated himself on his good looks; the girl grew angry, and could not bear the self-praises of her Brother, interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avenged on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy, made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for your lack of beauty by your virtues."$
 Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy, made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for your lack of beauty by your virtues."$
 Brother, interpreting all he said (and how could she do otherwise?) into reflection on herself.  She ran off to her father.  to be avenged on her Brother, and spitefully accused him of having, as a boy, made use of that which belonged only to girls.  The father embraced them both, and bestowing his kisses and affection impartially on each, said, "I wish you both would look into the mirror every day:  you, my son, that you may not spoil your beauty by evil conduct; and you, my daughter, that you may make up for your lack of beauty by your virtues."$
 Buffoon and the Countryman*A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the people, and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward any person who invented a new amusement for the occasion. Various public performers contended for the prize.  Among them came a Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part. The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd, observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes (which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience ) contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here," he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."$
 Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd, observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes (which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience ) contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here," he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."$
 Buffoon grunted and squeaked away first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes (which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience ) contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here," he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."$
 Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here," he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."$
 Buffoon well known among the populace for his jokes, and said that he had a kind of entertainment which had never been brought out on any stage before.  This report being spread about made a great stir, and the theater was crowded in every part. The Buffoon appeared alone upon the platform, without any apparatus or confederates, and the very sense of expectation caused an intense silence.  He suddenly bent his head towards his bosom and imitated the squeaking of a little pig so admirably with his voice that the audience declared he had a porker under his cloak, and demanded that it should be shaken out.  When that was done and nothing was found, they cheered the actor, and loaded him with the loudest applause.  A Countryman in the crowd, observing all that has passed, said, "So help me, Hercules, he shall not beat me at that trick!"  and at once proclaimed that he would do the same thing on the next day, though in a much more natural way.  On the morrow a still larger crowd assembled in the theater, but now partiality for their favorite actor very generally prevailed, and the audience came rather to ridicule the Countryman than to see the spectacle.  Both of the performers appeared on the stage.  The Buffoon grunted and squeaked away first, and obtained, as on the preceding day, the applause and cheers of the spectators.  Next the Countryman commenced, and pretending that he concealed a little pig beneath his clothes (which in truth he did, but not suspected by the audience ) contrived to take hold of and to pull his ear causing the pig to squeak.  The Crowd, however, cried out with one consent that the Buffoon had given a far more exact imitation, and clamored for the Countryman to be kicked out of the theater.  On this the rustic produced the little pig from his cloak and showed by the most positive proof the greatness of their mistake.  "Look here," he said, "this shows what sort of judges you are."$
 Bull adorned with horns, envied him and wished that he himself could obtain the same honors.  He went to Jupiter, and besought him to give him horns.  Jupiter, vexed at his request because he was not satisfied with his size and strength of body, and desired yet more, not only refused to give him horns, but even deprived him of a portion of his ears.$
 Bull and said, "I have slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage, and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."$
 Bull and the Calf*A BULL was striving with all his might to squeeze himself through a narrow passage which led to his stall.  A young Calf came up, and offered to go before and show him the way by which he could manage to pass.  "Save yourself the trouble," said the Bull; "I knew that way long before you were born."$
 Bull and the Goat*A BULL, escaping from a Lion, hid in a cave which some shepherds had recently occupied.  As soon as he entered, a He-Goat left in the cave sharply attacked him with his horns.  The Bull quietly addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a Bull."It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in distress.$
 Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do mischief."$
 Bull if he would like him to go.  The Bull replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you when you go away."Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the eyes of their neighbors.$
 Bull quietly addressed him:  "Butt away as much as you will.  I have no fear of you, but of the Lion.  Let that monster go away and I will soon let you know what is the respective strength of a Goat and a Bull."It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in distress.$
 Bull replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you when you go away."Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the eyes of their neighbors.$
 Bull rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do mischief."$
 Bull strong, the Horse proud, and the Ass patient.  Many of these fables are characterized by the strictest observance of these rules.  They are occupied with one short narrative, from which the moral naturally flows, and with which it is intimately associated. "'Tis the simple manner," says Dodsley, 2 "in which the morals of Aesop are interwoven with his fables that distinguishes him, and gives him the preference over all other mythologists.  His 'Mountain delivered of a Mouse,' produces the moral of his fable in ridicule of pompous pretenders; and his Crow, when she drops her cheese, lets fall, as it were by accident, the strongest admonition against the power of flattery.  There is no need of a separate sentence to explain it; no possibility of impressing it deeper, by that load we too often see of accumulated reflections."  3 An equal amount of praise is due for the consistency with which the characters of the animals, fictitiously introduced, are marked.  While they are made to depict the motives and passions of men, they retain, in an eminent degree, their own special features of craft or counsel, of cowardice or courage, of generosity or rapacity.These terms of praise, it must be confessed, cannot be bestowed on all the fables in this collection.  Many of them lack that unity of design, that close connection of the moral with the narrative, that wise choice in the introduction of the animals, which constitute the charm and excellency of true Aesopian fable. This inferiority of some to others is sufficiently accounted for in the history of the origin and descent of these fables.  The great bulk of them are not the immediate work of Aesop.  Many are obtained from ancient authors prior to the time in which he lived.  Thus, the fable of the "Hawk and the Nightingale" is related by Hesiod; 4 the "Eagle wounded by an Arrow, winged with its own Feathers," by Aeschylus; 5 the "Fox avenging his wrongs on the Eagle," by Archilochus.  6 Many of them again are of later origin, and are to be traced to the monks of the middle ages:  and yet this collection, though thus made up of fables both earlier and later than the era of Aesop, rightfully bears his name, because he composed so large a number (all framed in the same mould, and conformed to the same fashion, and stamped with the same lineaments, image, and superscription) as to secure to himself the right to be considered the father of Greek fables, and the founder of this class of writing, which has ever since borne his name, and has secured for him, through all succeeding ages, the position of the first of moralists.7The fables were in the first instance only narrated by Aesop, and for a long time were handed down by the uncertain channel of oral tradition.  Socrates is mentioned by Plato 8 as having employed his time while in prison, awaiting the return of the sacred ship from Delphos which was to be the signal of his death, in turning some of these fables into verse, but he thus versified only such as he remembered.  Demetrius Phalereus, a philosopher at Athens about 300 B.C., is said to have made the first collection of these fables.  Phaedrus, a slave by birth or by subsequent misfortunes, and admitted by Augustus to the honors of a freedman, imitated many of these fables in Latin iambics about the commencement of the Christian era.  Aphthonius, a rhetorician of Antioch, A.D. 315, wrote a treatise on, and converted into Latin prose, some of these fables.  This translation is the more worthy of notice, as it illustrates a custom of common use, both in these and in later times.  The rhetoricians and philosophers were accustomed to give the Fables of Aesop as an exercise to their scholars, not only inviting them to discuss the moral of the tale, but also to practice and to perfect themselves thereby in style and rules of grammar, by making for themselves new and various versions of the fables.  Ausonius, 9 the friend of the Emperor Valentinian, and the latest poet of eminence in the Western Empire, has handed down some of these fables in verse, which Julianus Titianus, a contemporary writer of no great name, translated into prose.  Avienus, also a contemporary of Ausonius, put some of these fables into Latin elegiacs, which are given by Nevelet (in a book we shall refer to hereafter), and are occasionally incorporated with the editions of Phaedrus.Seven centuries elapsed before the next notice is found of the Fables of Aesop.  During this long period these fables seem to have suffered an eclipse, to have disappeared and to have been forgotten; and it is at the commencement of the fourteenth century, when the Byzantine emperors were the great patrons of learning, and amidst the splendors of an Asiatic court, that we next find honors paid to the name and memory of Aesop.  Maximus Planudes, a learned monk of Constantinople, made a collection of about a hundred and fifty of these fables.  Little is known of his history.  Planudes, however, was no mere recluse, shut up in his monastery.  He took an active part in public affairs.  In 1327 A.D.  he was sent on a diplomatic mission to Venice by the Emperor Andronicus the Elder.  This brought him into immediate contact with the Western Patriarch, whose interests he henceforth advocated with so much zeal as to bring on him suspicion and persecution from the rulers of the Eastern Church.  Planudes has been exposed to a two-fold accusation.  He is charged on the one hand with having had before him a copy of Babrias (to whom we shall have occasion to refer at greater length in the end of this Preface), and to have had the bad taste "to transpose," or to turn his poetical version into prose:  and he is asserted, on the other hand, never to have seen the Fables of Aesop at all, but to have himself invented and made the fables which he palmed off under the name of the famous Greek fabulist.  The truth lies between these two extremes.  Planudes may have invented some few fables, or have inserted some that were current in his day; but there is an abundance of unanswerable internal evidence to prove that he had an acquaintance with the veritable fables of Aesop, although the versions he had access to were probably corrupt, as contained in the various translations and disquisitional exercises of the rhetoricians and philosophers.  His collection is interesting and important, not only as the parent source or foundation of the earlier printed versions of Aesop, but as the direct channel of attracting to these fables the attention of the learned.The eventual re-introduction, however, of these Fables of Aesop to their high place in the general literature of Christendom, is to be looked for in the West rather than in the East.  The calamities gradually thickening round the Eastern Empire, and the fall of Constantinople, 1453 A.D.  combined with other events to promote the rapid restoration of learning in Italy; and with that recovery of learning the revival of an interest in the Fables of Aesop is closely identified.  These fables, indeed, were among the first writings of an earlier antiquity that attracted attention.  They took their place beside the Holy Scriptures and the ancient classic authors, in the minds of the great students of that day.  Lorenzo Valla, one of the most famous promoters of Italian learning, not only translated into Latin the Iliad of Homer and the Histories of Herodotus and Thucydides, but also the Fables of Aesop.These fables, again, were among the books brought into an extended circulation by the agency of the printing press.  Bonus Accursius, as early as 1475-1480, printed the collection of these fables, made by Planudes, which, within five years afterwards, Caxton translated into English, and printed at his press in West- minster Abbey, 1485.  10 It must be mentioned also that the learning of this age has left permanent traces of its influence on these fables, ll by causing the interpolation with them of some of those amusing stories which were so frequently introduced into the public discourses of the great preachers of those days, and of which specimens are yet to be found in the extant sermons of Jean Raulin, Meffreth, and Gabriel Barlette.   12 The publication of this era which most probably has influenced these fables, is the "Liber Facetiarum," l3 a book consisting of a hundred jests and stories, by the celebrated Poggio Bracciolini, published A.D.  1471, from which the two fables of the "Miller, his Son, and the Ass," and the "Fox and the Woodcutter," are undoubtedly selected.The knowledge of these fables rapidly spread from Italy into Germany, and their popularity was increased by the favor and sanction given to them by the great fathers of the Reformation, who frequently used them as vehicles for satire and protest against the tricks and abuses of the Romish ecclesiastics.  The zealous and renowned Camerarius, who took an active part in the preparation of the Confession of Augsburgh, found time, amidst his numerous avocations, to prepare a version for the students in the university of Tubingen, in which he was a professor.  Martin Luther translated twenty of these fables, and was urged by Melancthon to complete the whole; while Gottfried Arnold, the celebrated Lutheran theologian, and librarian to Frederick I, king of Prussia, mentions that the great Reformer valued the Fables of Aesop next after the Holy Scriptures.  In 1546 A.D. the second printed edition of the collection of the Fables made by Planudes, was issued from the printing-press of Robert Stephens, in which were inserted some additional fables from a MS. in the Bibliotheque du Roy at Paris.The greatest advance, however, towards a re-introduction of the Fables of Aesop to a place in the literature of the world, was made in the early part of the seventeenth century.  In the year 1610, a learned Swiss, Isaac Nicholas Nevelet, sent forth the third printed edition of these fables, in a work entitled "Mythologia Aesopica."  This was a noble effort to do honor to the great fabulist, and was the most perfect collection of Aesopian fables ever yet published.  It consisted, in addition to the collection of fables given by Planudes and reprinted in the various earlier editions, of one hundred and thirty-six new fables (never before published) from MSS.  in the Library of the Vatican, of forty fables attributed to Aphthonius, and of forty-three from Babrias.  It also contained the Latin versions of the same fables by Phaedrus, Avienus, and other authors.  This volume of Nevelet forms a complete "Corpus Fabularum Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop owes his restoration to universal favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind.  During the interval of three centuries which has elapsed since the publication of this volume of Nevelet's, no book, with the exception of the Holy Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than Aesop's Fables.  They have been translated into the greater number of the languages both of Europe and of the East, and have been read, and will be read, for generations, alike by Jew, Heathen, Mohammedan, and Christian.  They are, at the present time, not only engrafted into the literature of the civilized world, but are familiar as household words in the common intercourse and daily conversation of the inhabitants of all countries.This collection of Nevelet's is the great culminating point in the history of the revival of the fame and reputation of Aesopian Fables.  It is remarkable, also, as containing in its preface the germ of an idea, which has been since proved to have been correct by a strange chain of circumstances.  Nevelet intimates an opinion, that a writer named Babrias would be found to be the veritable author of the existing form of Aesopian Fables.  This intimation has since given rise to a series of inquiries, the knowledge of which is necessary, in the present day, to a full understanding of the true position of Aesop in connection with the writings that bear his name.The history of Babrias is so strange and interesting, that it might not unfitly be enumerated among the curiosities of literature.  He is generally supposed to have been a Greek of Asia Minor, of one of the Ionic Colonies, but the exact period in which he lived and wrote is yet unsettled.  He is placed, by one critic, l4 as far back as the institution of the Achaian League, B.C.  250; by another as late as the Emperor Severus, who died A.D.  235; while others make him a contemporary with Phaedrus in the time of Augustus.  At whatever time he wrote his version of Aesop, by some strange accident it seems to have entirely disappeared, and to have been lost sight of.  His name is mentioned by Avienus; by Suidas, a celebrated critic, at the close of the eleventh century, who gives in his lexicon several isolated verses of his version of the fables; and by John Tzetzes, a grammarian and poet of Constantinople, who lived during the latter half of the twelfth century.  Nevelet, in the preface to the volume which we have described, points out that the Fables of Planudes could not be the work of Aesop, as they contain a reference in two places to "Holy monks," and give a verse from the Epistle of St.  James as an "Epimith" to one of the fables, and suggests Babrias as their author.  Francis Vavassor, 15 a learned French jesuit, entered at greater length on this subject, and produced further proofs from internal evidence, from the use of the word Piraeus in describing the harbour of Athens, a name which was not given till two hundred years after Aesop, and from the introduction of other modern words, that many of these fables must have been at least committed to writing posterior to the time of Aesop, and more boldly suggests Babrias as their author or collector.  16 These various references to Babrias induced Dr. Plichard Bentley, at the close of the seventeenth century, to examine more minutely the existing versions of Aesop's Fables, and he maintained that many of them could, with a slight change of words, be resolved into the Scazonic l7 iambics, in which Babrias is known to have written:  and, with a greater freedom than the evidence then justified, he put forth, in behalf of Babrias, a claim to the exclusive authorship of these fables.  Such a seemingly extravagant theory, thus roundly asserted, excited much opposition.  Dr. Bentley l8 met with an able antagonist in a member of the University of Oxford, the Hon.  Mr.  Charles Boyle, 19 afterwards Earl of Orrery.  Their letters and disputations on this subject, enlivened on both sides with much wit and learning, will ever bear a conspicuous place in the literary history of the seventeenth century.  The arguments of Dr. Bentley were yet further defended a few years later by Mr.  Thomas Tyrwhitt, a well-read scholar, who gave up high civil distinctions that he might devote himself the more unreservedly to literary pursuits. Mr.  Tyrwhitt published, A.D.  1776, a Dissertation on Babrias, and a collection of his fables in choliambic meter found in a MS. in the Bodleian Library at Oxford.  Francesco de Furia, a learned Italian, contributed further testimony to the correctness of the supposition that Babrias had made a veritable collection of fables by printing from a MS.  contained in the Vatican library several fables never before published.  In the year 1844, however, new and unexpected light was thrown upon this subject. A veritable copy of Babrias was found in a manner as singular as were the MSS.  of Quinctilian's Institutes, and of Cicero's Orations by Poggio in the monastery of St.  Gall A.D.  1416.  M. Menoides, at the suggestion of M. Villemain, Minister of Public Instruction to King Louis Philippe, had been entrusted with a commission to search for ancient MSS., and in carrying out his instructions he found a MS.  at the convent of St.  Laura, on Mount Athos, which proved to be a copy of the long suspected and wished-for choliambic version of Babrias.  This MS.  was found to be divided into two books, the one containing a hundred and twenty-five, and the other ninety-five fables.  This discovery attracted very general attention, not only as confirming, in a singular manner, the conjectures so boldly made by a long chain of critics, but as bringing to light valuable literary treasures tending to establish the reputation, and to confirm the antiquity and authenticity of the great mass of Aesopian Fable.  The Fables thus recovered were soon published.  They found a most worthy editor in the late distinguished Sir George Cornewall Lewis, and a translator equally qualified for his task, in the Reverend James Davies, M.A., sometime a scholar of Lincoln College, Oxford, and himself a relation of their English editor.  Thus, after an eclipse of many centuries, Babrias shines out as the earliest, and most reliable collector of veritable Aesopian Fables.The following are the sources from which the present translation has been prepared:     Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  George Cornewall Lewis.  Oxford, 1846. Babrii Fabulae Aesopeae.  E codice manuscripto partem secundam edidit.  George Cornewall Lewis.  London:  Parker, 1857. Mythologica Aesopica.  Opera et studia Isaaci Nicholai Neveleti. Frankfort, 1610. Fabulae Aesopiacae, quales ante Planudem ferebantur cura et studio Francisci de Furia.  Lipsiae, 1810. ??????????????.  Ex recognitione Caroli Halmii.  Lipsiae, Phaedri Fabulae Esopiae.  Delphin Classics.  1822.GEORGE FYLER TOWNSEND$
 Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may only secure my own escape from him in safety."$
 Bull was in the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage, and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."$
 Bull with his horns gored him as if he were an enemy.  When the Ass saw that the huge beast could be assailed with impunity, he let drive at his forehead with his heels.  The expiring Lion said, "I have reluctantly brooked the insults of the brave, but to be compelled to endure such treatment from thee, a disgrace to Nature, is indeed to die a double death."$
 Bull*A BULL was bitten by a Mouse and, angered by the wound, tried to capture him.  But the Mouse reached his hole in safety.  Though the Bull dug into the walls with his horns, he tired before he could rout out the Mouse, and crouching down, went to sleep outside the hole.  The Mouse peeped out, crept furtively up his flank, and again biting him, retreated to his hole.  The Bull rising up, and not knowing what to do, was sadly perplexed.  At which the Mouse said, "The great do not always prevail.  There are times when the small and lowly are the strongest to do mischief."$
 Bull*A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time. Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.  The Bull replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you when you go away."Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the eyes of their neighbors.$
 Bull*A HERDSMAN tending his flock in a forest lost a Bull-calf from the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that, if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf. Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may only secure my own escape from him in safety."$
 Bull*A LION, greatly desiring to capture a Bull, and yet afraid to attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick to ensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage, and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."$
 Bull, and sat there a long time. Just as he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and inquired of the Bull if he would like him to go.  The Bull replied, "I did not know you had come, and I shall not miss you when you go away."Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the eyes of their neighbors.$
 Bull, and yet afraid to attack him on account of his great size, resorted to a trick to ensure his destruction.  He approached the Bull and said, "I have slain a fine sheep, my friend; and if you will come home and partake of him with me, I shall be delighted to have your company."  The Lion said this in the hope that, as the Bull was in the act of reclining to eat, he might attack him to advantage, and make his meal on him.  The Bull, on approaching the Lion's den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."$
 Bull, on approaching the Lion's den, saw the huge spits and giant caldrons, and no sign whatever of the sheep, and, without saying a word, quietly took his departure.  The Lion inquired why he went off so abruptly without a word of salutation to his host, who had not given him any cause for offense.  "I have reasons enough," said the Bull.  "I see no indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."$
 Bull, the Lioness, and the Wild-Boar Hunter*A BULL finding a lion's cub asleep gored him to death with his horns.  The Lioness came up, and bitterly lamented the death of her whelp.  A wild-boar Hunter, seeing her distress, stood at a distance and said to her, "Think how many men there are who have reason to lament the loss of their children, whose deaths have been caused by you."$
 Bull-calf from the fold.  After a long and fruitless search, he made a vow that, if he could only discover the thief who had stolen the Calf, he would offer a lamb in sacrifice to Hermes, Pan, and the Guardian Deities of the forest.  Not long afterwards, as he ascended a small hillock, he saw at its foot a Lion feeding on the Calf. Terrified at the sight, he lifted his eyes and his hands to heaven, and said:  "Just now I vowed to offer a lamb to the Guardian Deities of the forest if I could only find out who had robbed me; but now that I have discovered the thief, I would willingly add a full-grown Bull to the Calf I have lost, if I may only secure my own escape from him in safety."$
 Bull.  "I see no indication whatever of your having slaughtered a sheep, while I do see very plainly every preparation for your dining on a bull."$
 Bull."It shows an evil disposition to take advantage of a friend in distress.$
 Bull; "I knew that way long before you were born."$
 Bulls*THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together.  A Lion lay in ambush in the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to attack them while they kept together.  Having at last by guileful speeches succeeded in separating them, he attacked them without fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one by one at his own leisure.Union is strength.$
 Burying Her Father*THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth, she could find no place of burial for him.  She let him lie uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not knowing what else to do, she buried him in her own head.  Hence she obtained her crest, which is popularly said to be her father's grave-hillock.Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.$
 But I can't think that you, who refuse me a little matter now.  will by and by confer on me a greater benefit."$
 But I shall not have to wait long for my just revenge; for if you now should crop my leaves, and cut me down to my root, I shall provide the wine to pour over you when you are led as a victim to the sacrifice."$
 But a very great tempest came on, and the ship being in danger of sinking, he threw all his merchandise overboard, and barely escaped with his life in the empty ship. Not long afterwards when someone passed by and observed the unruffled calm of the Sea, he interrupted him and said, "It is again in want of dates, and therefore looks quiet."$
  i ind lcp rnk select
---------------------------
